This is Jockel Podcast number 175.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
23 October 1942, 8th Army.
Personal message from the Army commander.
When I assumed command of the 8th Army, I said that the mandate was to destroy
the Army and his army and that it would be done as soon as we are ready.
We are ready now.
The battle which is about to begin will be one of the decisive battles of history.
It will be the turning point of the war.
The eyes of the whole world will be on us watching anxiously which way the battle will
swing.
We can give them their answer at once.
It will swing our way.
We have first class equipment, good tanks, good anti-tank guns, plenty of artillery and plenty
of ammunition.
We are backed up by the finest air striking force in the world.
All that is necessary is that each one of us, every officer in man should enter this
battle with the determination to see it through, to fight and to kill and finally to win.
If we all do this, there can be only one result.
Together we will hit the enemy for six right out of North Africa.
The sooner we win this battle, which will be the turning point of the war, the sooner
we shall all get back home to our families.
Therefore let every officer and man enter the battle with a stout heart and the determination
to do his duty as long as he has breath in his body and let no man surrender so long
as he is unwounded and can fight.
Let us all pray that the Lord might be in battle.
We will give us victory.
BL Montgomery, Lieutenant General, 8th Army.
And that is a note written on the eve of the battle of Alameen, which ended up being the
turning point of the war in North Africa and General Bernard Montgomery, commonly referred
to as Monti, defeated the desert fox, Rama, one of the most respected generals in all
of history really.
And Monti was actually a controversial figure.
And I think he got more controversial, the more famous he got.
He was a soldier, he was gravely wounded by a sniper in the battle of the praises.
He was shot in the lung, he was in such bad shape that they actually dug a grave for him.
But somehow he pulled through, he recovered, he served the rest of the war as a staff officer.
And he was actually very critical of the tactics and of the strategy and of the willingness
of the leadership to accept such horrific and heinous levels of casualties.
So he was critical of that.
And after the war was over, he served, he stayed in the army, he served in Palestine,
he served in India.
And then in 1939, of course there was more war.
And he was in command of the third division.
He went to France.
And he was actually pretty worried about going to France.
He didn't feel super confident about it.
And he returned home with the rest of the British forces that were driven off the continent
from Dunkirk.
And you know there, they were able to refit to be able to go out and re-engage.
And he headed to Africa next.
And the eight army was pretty beat down at that point when he showed up, though he turned
around their morale and made them believe that they could win.
And the first major land victory of the war in the second battle of L. Alameen.
From there, he helped the invasion of Sicily.
And then he commanded all forces, all ground forces.
On D.D.A. he commanded all the ground forces.
So that was obviously a massive operation.
He planned and led operation, market garden, which was the invasion of the low countries.
We've covered some of those battles on this podcast because it was not good.
It didn't go well.
And he was kind of the guy pushing that.
But he was able to redeem himself from that during the battle of the bulge, which we've
also covered on this podcast.
So you know he had some ups and downs, but mostly ups.
So what was the controversial year?
What's this kind of tainted image of him?
First of all, some people saw him as being arrogant.
And some of the people that saw him as being arrogant were Americans.
Americans like Patton and Bradley.
And I mean, let's face it if you're talking about for sure Patton.
We're not talking about a guy with a small ego.
So you can imagine that when you have a clash of egos, that can be, you know, you can
get some professional jealousy and whatnot.
Even Sir Winston Churchill said that Monti was, and this is a good quote, indifit unbeatable
in victory unbearable.
So there's another an anecdote about him where he was asked to name three great generals.
He said the other two would be Alexander the Great and Napoleon meaning he's just a
all top of the list.
So he may have had, it may have been a little bit egotistical.
And I think from what I've read about him, he lacked tact.
And later on in life he was kind of controversial as well.
He was very critical of American tactics in Vietnam.
He said that America had no clear cut objective in Vietnam, which, you know, I'm critical
of the tactics in Vietnam.
I think it's pretty safe to say that there should have been a more clear cut objective.
That but that obviously made some of our military leadership in America angry.
I don't know if I would argue against those statements.
He oddly enough spoke positively about the Chinese Communist government when he was older.
He publicly supported apartheid in South Africa.
So these are more things that people sort of sort of tainted his image.
But besides all that he is still known as a as a as a tactician.
And there's plenty of support from his troops and his men that that loved him and were
ready to follow him anywhere.
And there are some people that say even that he acted arrogant.
It was almost like a show that he put on to kind of unify his troops that this was
Montenegro.
This was the great guy and we're just we got to look what Montenegro did.
So there's that he wrote a lot.
He spoke he wrote well.
He's got some great some documents that he put out.
And I won it one, he's got a ton of the people out.
One of them, I'm going to read.
It's a very interesting piece.
He wrote this after Germany had surrendered and the British occupation forces were in place
in Germany.
So you've got the Brits there in Germany occupying the country.
You've got the German civilians who have been defeated in war.
And here we go to this message, the U.S. 10 June 1945, Germany, personal message from the commander
and chief to the population of the British area in Germany.
You have wondered no doubt why our soldiers do not smile when you wave your hands or say
good morning in the streets or play with the children.
It is because our soldiers are obeying orders.
You do not like it nor do our soldiers.
We are naturally friendly and forgiving people.
But the orders were necessary and I will tell you why.
In the last war of 1914, which your rulers began, your army was defeated.
Your generals surrendered and the peace treaty of Versailles, your rulers admitted that the
guilt of beginning the war was Germany's.
But the surrender was made in France.
The war never came to your country.
Your cities were not damaged like the cities of France and Belgium and your armies
marched home in good order.
Then your rulers began to spread the story that your armies were never really defeated.
And later they denied the war guilt clauses of the peace treaty.
They told you that Germany was neither guilty nor defeated.
Because the war had not come to your country, many of you believed it.
And you cheered when your rulers began another war.
Again after years of waste and slaughter and misery, your armies have been defeated.
This time the allies were determined that you should learn your lesson not only that you
have been defeated, which you must know by now, but that you, your nation, were again
guilty of beginning the war.
For if that is not made clear to you and your children, you may again allow yourselves
to be deceived by your rulers and led into another war.
During the war, your rulers would not let you know what the world was thinking of you.
Many of you seem to think that when our soldiers arrived, you could be friends with them
at once as if nothing much had happened.
But too much has happened for that.
Our soldiers have seen their comrades shot down, their homes and ruins, their wives and children
hungry.
They have seen terrible things in many countries where your rulers took the war.
For those things, you will say you are not responsible.
It was your rulers.
But they were done by the German nation.
The nation is responsible for its rulers and while they were successful, you cheered
and laughed.
That is why our soldiers do not smile at you.
This we have ordered.
This we have done to save yourselves, to save your children, to save the world from another
war.
It will not always be so.
We are Christian for giving people and we like to smile and be friendly.
Our object is to destroy the evil of the Nazi system.
It is too soon to be sure that this has been done.
You are to read this to your children if they are old enough and see that they understand.
Tell them why it is that the British soldier does not smile.
BL Montgomery Field Marshal Commander in Chief British Area.
So, obviously that message was produced in German and in English and spread out amongst
the population.
I thought that was a pretty awesome outlook.
He also spoke and wrote a fair amount about leadership.
When you look at his writing and his speeches, you can see some of his peculiarities,
some of his personality shines through sometimes.
I want to take a look at some of that.
Some of the things that he wrote and the first piece is called Military Leadership.
It is actually from a speech that he gave at the University of St. Andrews in 15 November
1945.
It is like a transcript or maybe it is notes.
I am not sure which.
But it is written as if he was reading it.
So here we go.
Let's go to this book, Military Leadership.
I have come here to talk to you about Military Leadership.
A subject such as this must in normal times seem somewhat remote from this quiet gray
walled city by the sea.
Today I have to try and equate the definition of military leadership as I see it to the
lessons of the past and to the experience of the present.
I propose to limit myself in this talk to higher leadership, the command of armies or
a group of armies and not to consider the quality of leadership at lower levels.
What I say about higher leadership may well have certain application to leadership of a brigade
or a company or a section of men.
There are however certain differences in leadership at lower levels and I do not propose
to take up your time by discussing these today.
Now you will see as he goes into this he covers up he is talking about that all the time.
I am not sure even why he did that.
But he talks about the entire chain of command throughout this speech.
Military Leadership is a subject which is always interested in me.
During this war I have had some opportunity to put my ideas to the test.
I have found that if you aspire to lead soldiers you must take a close study of human
nature.
For that is the raw material with which a commander has to achieve his end.
If you neglect the human factor as a leader you will fail.
The personal relationship between a commander and his soldiers is and always has been one
of the most potent single factors in making for success and war.
If a commander has the complete confidence and trust of his men there is nothing he cannot
do.
Nothing.
If a commander loses the confidence of his men he cannot succeed.
That is a bold statement.
And something that I talk about all the time.
And there are two words that I use interchangeably.
I should use them more interchangeably more often.
I talk about relationships a lot and the word that I should use in or mix with that 50%
of time is trust.
It is a true relationship.
If you don't have trust you don't have a relationship then you don't have trust.
But they do have different meanings.
So it is important to me to establish that and the reason that I bring that up is because
if you are in a leadership position and you are breaking the trust that you have with your
men that is going to be a real problem.
You can say you don't have a good relationship with them but you could not have a good
relationship with someone and they could still trust you.
You could not have a good relationship with someone and you hadn't broken their trust.
It is going to be hard if you break their trust to have a good relationship with them.
But the key factor here is trust and confidence of the men.
Back to the book.
Now let us consider on what a man's power to lead others is based.
It is necessary first to define what is meant by leadership.
And this is where this gets a little interesting.
I suggest to you as the definition of the word leadership.
The will to dominate together with the character which inspires confidence.
The measure of a man's ability to lead, I think, is too fold.
So the first part of the definition of leadership in his mind is the will to dominate.
Which is, which is strong.
And you are going to see where he kind of counters that and he talks about decentralized
community talks about everything that I believe in.
I don't talk about, hey, as a leader, it is first and foremost that you have the will to dominate
other humans.
That is not, in fact, I think that is a negative quality.
But that being said, if you have someone that doesn't mind not winning, not dominating,
well, they are not going to put forth any effort.
They are not going to make things happen.
Like, force of will, I talk about that all the time.
You have to, you have to have the force of will to make things happen.
Sometimes you just have to make things happen.
They're not going to happen by themselves.
Anything that's going to come, that's good in life.
It's not going to happen by itself.
It's not going to wake up and it's there.
Like, like, an Easter egg.
That's not happening.
No, you got to go out and you got to make it happen.
Okay, maybe you get an Easter egg when you're six years old.
But once you're 26 years old, there's no Easter eggs coming to you.
You got to make them.
Okay.
Back to the book.
First it lies in his will to dominate the men and events which surround him.
The will to drive himself and his men to the limit of their powers for a specific purpose
and the refusal to allow anything to divert him from his aim.
Again, you're going to see where that sounds so strong.
It sounds unbalanced, right?
It sounds like he's outside the dichotomy of leadership.
He's going to follow one direction.
He's being extreme.
Like, nothing, you're going to refuse to allow anything to divert you.
Okay, so that was that mean.
Then you get everyone killed.
That's what they did in World War I.
He didn't like that.
But you're going to see where he balances out these statements later.
Second, it lies in the strength of his character, whether good or evil to inspire others
to place their complete trust and confidence in him and his ability to lead them with success
and to infuse his men for the task in hand.
His ability of a man to inspire confidence in others and to create enthusiasm is a spiritual
quality.
But it is not, but it is well to remember that this quality need not necessarily be for
good.
The evil leader has equally the ability to inspire confidence in others and in history, the
evil leader has often had any rate temporarily prevailed.
And he counters that at the end too.
There have been many with different types of characters, character who have inspired
men to follow them.
I propose to choose three great captains of the past and examine briefly why these
men were leaders and how they led their men and how as leaders they succeeded or fails.
So he's going to go into a little case study a couple pages here.
I will first consider Moses.
He was already old when he was called to lead the children of Israel out of the land of
Egypt.
His task was an immense one.
He had first to inspire his people to cast off the yoke of the Egyptians.
This was no easy matter.
Israel had been living for about 400 years as slaves of the Egyptians.
They had lived in the Nile Delta abad, climate and one which tends to sap up energy and
initiative, but they lived where food was plentiest while all around were deserts which
could barely support life.
Moses must have had to overcome the most tremendous initial inertia to persuade Israel
to launch out into those deserts with all the risks of famine, disease and the necessity
to fight.
His power to inspire and dominate his fellow men must have been of a very high order.
Now see that's what I just, I don't look at that as domination of your fellow man.
I look, I see the inspiring part, but I'm not looking at it, hey, we're looking to dominate.
I see his angle, right?
I see where he's coming from.
And maybe that word, words change, words, morph over time.
Maybe that word dominate that he's using.
Maybe it had less of a sting to it.
Then 50 years ago, possibly have less sting.
70 years of words change.
Yeah, words change over time.
But that's what he's saying.
But things were kind of hardcore too, right?
Back then, you know, like long time ago, there are just things in general, we're a little
bit more blunt.
Yeah, so maybe the times that I'm not sure they were pretty good.
And even this time, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
I don't know, though.
I'm not 100% sure.
I'm not 100% sure if he means the word dominate the way we think of it.
Apparently not.
I mean, it seems like there's a little bit more to it.
I guess when he count and you'll hear him count, I guess that's what maybe makes me think
maybe he means it a little bit less severe.
Maybe because he starts to talk about the balance of this dichotomy.
Because let's face it.
Hey, okay, let me ask you this question.
Here out, this is Ms. gonna make it really easy.
If I was a type of person that was like, hey, I'm looking to dominate you, come with me
into the desert.
And we're gonna have to live with us.
We're going away from the Nile River.
And we're going out to this barren area.
We're just not a lot of food.
And I'm gonna have a domineering personality.
And I'm gonna be all over you every day.
How enticing is that?
Not very.
Now, if I was inspiring, and I said, listen, echo, we're gonna get out there.
We're gonna train.
We're gonna come back.
We're gonna get in our revenge.
It's gonna take some time.
But we're gonna make it.
You're like that.
That's different, right?
Yeah.
You know what?
Now that I'm thinking of it, we're dominating.
What's the root of the dominant?
You know what it could be.
Yeah, I should have studied the etymology before we got on this podcast.
I apologize.
You know what it could be though.
Picture when you have a good leader that dominates the room.
Right?
Yeah.
That's a positive thing.
Right?
Yeah, you know, echo came in for the meeting.
He just dominated the room.
He did great.
That's a positive thing.
Yeah.
So maybe he means it that way.
Unfortunately, he talks about dominating the will of.
Right?
He talks about dominating the men and events.
That's around him.
I don't know.
Actually, he doesn't talk about dominating the will.
So maybe that's what they mean.
Maybe he means just like this dominating presence.
Yeah.
All right.
Going back to the book without a doubt, Moses realized that when he led Israel out of Egypt,
they were useless as a fighting people.
They'd been slaves for some 400 years.
He therefore set to work to train them for the task and to forge the weapon which
would conquer, gain it.
It's interesting.
He talks about the training of armies as forging weapons.
Like you're forging this weapon.
I think that's a pretty cool analogy.
I believe that Moses intentionally kept Israel for 40 years in the desert for two generations
in order to breed and train a fighting race capable of undertaking the task of conquest
which lay at hand.
And in that 40 years, he taught them gradually how to fight and conquer.
He took meticulous care over their training.
And it is most interesting to note his refusal ever to risk any failures into action.
This is interesting.
He brings this up quite a bit.
So Moses didn't take any risk where he thought he might fail.
We read of him soon after leaving Egypt asking if he might lead Israel through the country
of another people.
On being refused permission, he marches round by another way.
But later when the same situation arises when Israel is better trained to fight, he leads
his people straight through the middle of that country and destroys his enemy utterly.
He was a good judge of what Israel was capable of doing and what Israel was not capable
of doing and as a result, he had an unbroken record of military successes.
He had the wisdom and the insight into human nature to realize that the best way for a
leader to gain confidence of his soldiers is to give them victories.
If a commander gives his soldiers victories, they will follow him anywhere.
But Moses was not permitted to see the fruits of his own work.
He sinned by claiming as his own powers which did not belong to him and for this sin of
presumption he was forced to hand over to Joshua the final conquest of Canaan for which
he had so well trained to the children of Israel.
So there he wraps up on Moses.
I think and he kind of refers back to this point later in this book is the fact that you
got to be, you got to push for victory, right?
You got to push for victory and this is, it's almost like risk of version, right?
Which I'm not a fan of and you can't be risk of averse but you got to be calculated.
To the book and the next section he is going to talk about Kramwell.
He just refers to him as Kramwell, all of a Kramwell.
Kramwell, who was an English statement but he was a soldier.
This is like in the 1600s, 1620s he was a hardcore Puritan and he organized military forces
in the civil war broke out 1642.
He was the deputy commander of the new model army.
He defeated the main royalist force in 1645 and then he commanded campaigns in Ireland
in Scotland in the 1650s.
He was kind of over the top, I guess you might say.
I mean beyond that he had there was an Irish massacre, you know, and that spiraled into
a war for hundreds of years and ultimately as a politician once he kind of got done with
a war part he became a politician and he really didn't do a great job.
That's just some kind of highlights of Oliver Kramwell.
Thank you, we go back to the book, I next proposed to consider Kramwell another leader who
went to wage war only when he was over middle age.
He was over 40 when the civil war broke out.
He started the civil war in command of a troop of 60 men and then commanded of that troop
he fought at edge hill.
There in spite of the parliamentary superiority and men and guns and the feet perfectly
held cause he saw the failure of his own side to seize the victory and he saw them
escape defeat only because of the folly of their opponents.
This gave him much cause for thought.
Superiority in men and equipment was clearly valueless unless something further was added.
This is part that I kind of got fired up for.
What was needed also, so besides guns, good superiority and man superiority equipment, what
was needed also was the leader who would forge the weapon out of the enthusiastic material
available and would then lead it with bigger and determination to achieve his military
and so once again we're talking about what leader can take this leader can forge a weapon
from men.
He saw to the nature of the weapon required and how it could be forged.
So he started to understand the men as a weapon and how you could forge this weapon properly
and he set himself to task to the task of building a force after his own principles based
on a high fighting spirit, spirit, good discipline and a sound knowledge of tactics.
It was to be a force which would have complete confidence in him as their commander.
So this guy saw this situation where they almost got crushed the parliamentary forces were so
disorganized that they couldn't even take advantage of it and he saw this my opportunity.
And those are great lessons.
Love it when you learn the lesson that you didn't really have to pay for.
It happened sometimes.
It happens in MMA sometimes.
When you guy wins a fight because something you get lucky in the end and you get to go
and we've got the W but we also got to learn a great lesson to happen and combat all the
time.
Back off in operation you were like man if we would have gotten hit at this particular
moment we had security was down we were not paying attention we didn't have this flank
covered and by the grace of God we didn't get contacted from that area but we can't let
that happen again.
So sometimes you learn the lesson even though you didn't have to pay for it and that's what
it sounds like happened here.
Back to the book.
He said about his task full we are told of a furious zeal, a fire in his belly which
compelled him which compelled others to follow him.
He had complete confidence in his ability to gain success in war.
He saw the way in which he had to train his men to fight and the few essentials which
would ensure success provided his men had the right fighting spirit.
Ed Jail was fought in October 1642 with Cromwell as a captain of a troop of horse 60 strong
by January 1644.
He was a lieutenant general second in command of Manchester's army of the eastern counties
but leading cavalry commander on the parlor of entry side and the one outstanding commander
in the parlor of entry army.
So he made a rapid transition.
Now he gets into this Cromwell was not a likable man.
He was quick tempered believed in rigid discipline and constant training and he drove his
men hard but he believed with a blinding certainty in the righteousness of his cause.
He infused his soldiers with its righteousness and he was convinced of his own ability to
succeed to achieve success in battle.
This is one of those things where you know when you hear that people that monti was a
little bit like lact tact, this is one of those things where I think well did he read
this.
He read about Cromwell and study Cromwell and say well look no one like Cromwell.
You can tell me a good thing you don't have to be liked.
In fact, lafel tell the story there was a guy that was late for teaching a class to young
seals and there was a seal officer that would come in and say you shouldn't be liked
if you're in charge.
And lafes you know it's sitting the back of the room and think to himself this is not
good because that's not true.
Now it's probably true that what the guy was trying to say is listen you're not always
going to be popular for you.
Your goal should not be to be liked which I agree with.
But to say look you're going to be hated by your troops that's just the way it is
and that's wrong.
If you're hated by your troops you're probably doing something wrong.
Yeah.
And to say that if you're essentially the what the guy that lafes talking about, if you say
and if you're liked by your troops you're doing something wrong.
Yeah, that's true too.
What it feels like.
So I understand that thought as well like hey everyone loves me I must be doing a good
job.
Actually if everyone just thinks you're their buddy that's a problem.
So this may have been what this officer was trying to teach to the young officers
that that life was in charge of instructing.
I'm sure he tried to was trying to say the right thing.
But perhaps he wasn't articulating it 100% in the most clear way with a guy because
just to tell you hey you're not going to be liked where your officer.
Not true.
And not good.
If I have if I look at a seal between and the seal between doesn't like their officer
that's not a positive sign.
Yeah.
That does not mean that guy is a good leader.
Now it's also not a good sign if all the seal between everyone loves him that doesn't
mean it's good good between either.
So you can be loved but you're not doing a good job and you can be hated and you can be
no good job but you're probably not going to be able to pull off to a good job.
When guys don't like you they're not going to put forth any real effort to make you look
good is basically what they're doing.
Yeah.
And at the end of the day it obviously seems like it's just not that cut in dry.
No, no.
No.
Back to the book and he did achieve success.
He had no failures and if a commander has a righteous cause and gives his soldier success
he will gain the complete confidence of his men and then there is nothing he cannot do.
But the power which his prowess in the field at one for him led Cromwell to seize the
reins of government for himself.
He became impatient with the inefficiency methods, inefficiency of the parliamentary
government of those days and he compared it unfavorably with his own ability as a soldier
to give immediate decision and to see it take shape at once in action.
So he took over the government and he wanted things to move real quick.
But unfortunately.
But as in battle he had been sure of the correct course of action.
So in the political field he was on many occasions uncertain and perplexed during the
period in which he ruled England.
He tried out five different systems of government and all failed.
And at the end he was governing alone and much more absolutely than ever Charles had attempted
to rule.
Internally he taxed the people more highly and he disregarded parliament more
brazenly than Charles had never done and he interfered with the personal liberty more
tyrannously.
In Ireland also his harsh and cruel policy left the lasting hatred which the centuries
have not quenched.
But his rule was not wholly unproductive.
He made the fighting sir.
So he did accomplish one thing.
He made the fighting services the finest in the world and he gained for England a voice
and the affairs of Europe such as England had never had before.
So he was not a good governmental leader.
Many of his triumphs abroad were transient and unsubstantial and much that he attempted
at home disappeared when he died.
But his work for the Navy and its initial steps toward the creation of an empire planted
a foundation from which much has grown.
So he did had a good impact on the military but his governmental leading abilities or
all that straddle.
The third great captain I suppose to I propose to consider is Napoleon.
A leader driven by selfish and evil ambition.
That's interesting.
And not like the other two in pursuit of a great ideal.
Unlike the other two he was a soldier by profession.
Train from his youth in the profession of arms even as a very young boy in a military
academy he was clearly a leader.
He wished to dominate and he did dominate his fellow men.
There it is.
Now one sounds a little stronger.
That sounds a little bit more like what I think a dominate.
Again, unlike the other two he rose at a very early age to a high and independent command
at the age of 26 he took command of the army of Italy and army inferior numbers and equipment
to its opponents and semi-muteness from lack of pay.
Yet within a year with this inferior weapon which he re-forged to his liking he fought brilliantly
successful campaign in northern Italy and imposed peace on his enemy.
I like that.
Imposed peace on his enemies.
From the moment of his arrival with his army he dominated his troops both generals and soldiers
and inspired them with confidence in his ability to give them success.
Of that ability he himself had never any doubt.
And in his own self confidence lay much of his power to inspire confidence in others.
Behind this dominating self confidence however, lay Napoleon's ability to see in any military
problem the few essentials on which success would depend.
He had the great power to simplify any problem and to see what details were important
and which were unimportant.
There you go.
That's prioritizing execute and it's simple both in one big rule.
Right?
You've got to know what's important.
You've got to prioritize the importance things and you've got to keep everything simple.
I've got to email from Sarah Armstrong.
Talking about podcast 174 trying to be a 50.
Trying to be a 50 in all categories and she basically emailed me and said, hey heads up.
I used to try and be a 50 in every category even in categories that didn't matter.
So that's, you know, give people heads up and I was like, well yeah I mean I've talked about
that.
I talked about it with clients all the time but I talked about it on the podcast as well.
When specifically I talked about it saying, I don't know if you remember this example,
I said a black belt in due to like they don't care.
We are grabbing their sleeve and you're getting all crazy.
They don't care.
That doesn't matter.
If you're a white belt, someone grabs your sleeve, you're freaking out.
But if you're, if you're a black belt, take okay.
If you're a good leader and there's some, some, some issue that guys are complaining about.
It's no factor.
Don't care.
And then there's some issues that come up to you.
Okay, that's important.
I need to address that.
So this is what he had the ability to do.
What is essential and what is not.
Yeah.
Yeah, and that's that can be kind of a tricky one because you know, some, some things are super
small, super small.
But at the end of the day, they might be kind of important.
Yes, you know, like you can sort of predict you like, hey, that's small.
Sure.
But hey, I could see that like continuing and growing, you know.
For sure.
And sometimes all you have to do is monitor it.
Did make sure it doesn't grow.
Yeah.
Sometimes you have to put in check for sure, sometimes you have to.
Destroy something.
Remove it.
Kill it.
Yeah.
Sometimes you can't worry about it because it's not important.
So you got to figure which one of those out.
Like if you're employee.
Say your boss, your employee comes in one minute late.
Let's say comes in on time every single time like, but right now he has to get there at six.
Get there at six on the dot every single day.
Yeah.
And then like one week on Monday comes in at six.
It's not a big problem.
One day, no, it's not a problem.
You might want to throw a little something.
Right.
It's not something little something.
It's not nothing.
Yeah.
So it's not something.
It's like a long, this is probably what I'd say.
Huh?
See what happens when you cut it so close every day.
You're already a little, you're missed it by a minute, bro.
Exactly.
Right.
That's just throw a little, little.
Yeah.
Just let him know you're watching.
Just like I said, like, some things they're teeny, but they're not going to give it to you.
Am I going to give a dude a written counseling?
Because they were one minute late.
No.
Right.
Because now the guys are looking for different jobs and works.
He doesn't want to work from you.
Yeah.
He spas out on him.
But at the same time.
He's at six.
So one is like cool.
So next day comes in at six o'clock.
We'll say next day.
Then the next Monday comes in at six o'clock.
Oh, two knots.
Just one more minute.
Right.
Got to put it in check.
Yeah.
So you just a little something.
Same like something.
They seem small, but you take a broader view.
Well, like, hey, it's kind of important.
Yeah.
This goes back to the troop shaving and the Soviet troops stopping shaving.
This is it.
This is the slippery slope of a lack of discipline.
This is slippery.
Yeah.
I can tell you this.
If you're focused only on these little things, you might miss the big picture, which
was Sarah's point.
And I responded and I said, hey, I totally agreed with her.
Talked about some of the black belt thing and then the boss thing.
And then I was like, and by the way, because this is something I've talked about.
The floor in my garage gym is not to clean.
It gets a 2.0 on cleanliness.
How to what?
Out of five.
Maybe even gets a one.
I think one man.
Yeah, maybe gets a two.
No, no, no.
However, it gets like a 1.5.
Because it's not, it's not, it doesn't have actual dirt on it.
It's just got, it's just got a chalk and sweat stains.
Yeah.
Dryed up utility.
Not the glass to get.
Yeah.
It would take 20 minutes to half an hour each day to keep that thing at a 5.0 inspection
ready level.
Because once you've got to get in there and space, basically you got a power wash that
thing daily.
That's where you're at.
So I'm not power washing that thing daily.
Why is it?
Why is it not clean?
Not important.
Do I have, I actually have a vacuum in my garage that I hit it with.
Sometimes I hit it every two, three days.
That's a lot different than breaking out of, then pulling the mats out, power washing them
in the alley and then bringing them back in.
That's not even half an hour.
That's like a, that's a serious evolution.
That's a serious evolution.
So is it worth being a 5.0 in Matt, cleanliness garage gym?
The answer is no.
It's not worth it.
You need to lower that on the priorities scale.
Now, do I have big chunks of dirt and dog hair piled up and debris?
No.
It's completely debris free.
But there are some sweat stains on it.
There has been some, there are the remnants of getting after it.
Sure.
Right, which is kind of conducive.
Can be the way it is.
Yeah.
So what's the standard then generally speaking?
Not just an application to your garage gym floor.
You feel like everything, it's like little things.
I mean, just a basic little framework to establish.
It depends on the thing.
Yeah.
So, but what is it?
So you can go, it's like you go fundamentally then.
So what is it like, if it gets in the way, even if this much, even if it's little millimeter,
gets in the way of the overall objective then, it's relevant?
Important.
Well, no.
Then we just have to frame it so that we're not, whether we frame it as a waste of time.
How much effort are you going to put into that?
Right.
If it's not, if it doesn't get in the way, if it, no, no, if it gets in the way,
then I'm putting too much time.
If it gets in the way of my strategic goal, it's to bump putting too much time into it.
Okay, if solving this, it's the particular problem.
Yeah, yes, yes, okay.
But I meant the existing of a small little problem, if it gets in the way.
So like the way it's like, it's like, it's a problem.
Right.
I gotta fix it.
Yeah.
So if it does like the guy coming in late.
Let's say on my garage floor, there was chunks of rocks underneath the mats.
And they made it uneven.
And it was like slightly hazardous for me to be moving around on it.
And it interrupted and my weights rolled around.
That'd be a problem.
Yes.
It's affecting my strategic goal.
Those mats are getting picked up.
The rocks are getting moved.
The floor is getting leveled and we're going to go.
On the on this level, my mats get a five-o.
They're perfectly flat.
Yeah.
They're good to go.
They're do not interfere at all.
But they got some getting after it stains on them.
Yep, there it is.
Okay, going back to the book, having grasped the essentials of the problem and having
inspired his soldiers with confidence in himself and with high morale, he knew he could
not fail.
Napoleon, however, was always as much a politician as a soldier.
He had a great love of intrigue and of diplomatic bargaining and his contempt for his fellow men
and his passion to dominate them and events led him to aspire to greater things.
From the time he became first console, political rather than military factors influenced
his decisions and his failure to reconcile his political aspirations with what was
militarily possible, finally led him to the disasters of Moscow and the peninsula from which
no recovery was possible.
He started playing that political game.
Started making his military decisions based on what he wanted to happen politically.
Now what did these three men Moses, Kromwell and Napoleon, have in common without which they
would have not achieved success?
The most outstanding similarity was that they dominated their fellow men.
They were all supremely confident that they could and would do what they set out to do.
It was quite simple to them, quite easy and success was absolutely certain.
This certainty gave them each the power to inspire others to follow blindly and to the
limit of their strength and this inspiration and power to infuse others, immeasurably
increased the power of their forces to achieve whatever was asked to them.
That's called confidence, that's what that is, pure confidence.
Isn't it interesting when you see someone that's ultra confident?
No, they're not even overflowing into ego but they're just really, really confident and
people follow.
People will be like, okay, I'm on board.
This person's in the game, may believe it, imble, imble, I believe it too.
I've seen situations where people are so confident that people are falling and they're
wrong.
You know, you get that occasionally with the seal puttune, you get some experience guy that
was super confident and he actually wasn't that good or didn't really understand tactics
too well.
And he's known as what we're doing.
Yeah, he knows.
So I've done this a million times.
That's all.
By the way, that's a red flag.
Like somebody, when somebody counts on their number of times or their experience, that's
the way we've always done it.
I've done this a million times.
That's a red flag.
The reason that they're using those statements is because they don't have an actual answer.
So one of the new guys says, hey, awesome.
I'm not really sure why we, why are we assaulting through the target from this area over
here, wouldn't it make more sense to do?
And it goes, oh look, I've done this a million times.
This is how we're doing it.
You just think yourself.
So you don't have an actual answer.
You don't have an answer as to why you're just throwing that out there.
That's the easiest thing for you to do.
So if you ever find yourself saying, because this is how we've always done it, or look,
I've been doing this for 28 years.
Yeah, yeah.
I know.
No, you know, you're not a good answer.
You're wrong.
That could work against you to be honest.
Yeah, I've been doing this for 28 years and then like that day and the person figures out
like a way better way to do it and you're like, dang, bro, you've been wasting your time
for 28 years.
Yeah.
It could definitely work out bad.
It could work out bad because you're not listening to anyone else.
You're not taking input and then you end up making a bad decision.
From what did these men get their supreme confidence in their ability to achieve their
purpose and battle, I think they got it from their ability to see their problem in its
simplest form.
Oh, man.
I totally agree with that.
To see the few essentials necessary to the successful solution of the problem and to
see how those few essentials could be achieved.
This is why.
I, I'm always talking about qualities of leadership, the ability to simplify.
I'm sure you've heard me say this a thousand times.
If you have the ability to simplify things, that's a great asset to have and not everyone
has it or not.
Everyone has the same level of it.
Some people are good at it.
Some people not so much.
Some people just straight up complicate things.
Oh, yeah.
Once they grasp the essentials of the problem, they never lost sight of them and never allowed
a massive detail to submerge what was essential to success.
Oh, don't get caught up in the little details of things.
Don't let those things drown out what the real situation is.
For all military problems are in essence simple, but the ability to simplify and to select
out of the massive detail, those things and only those things that are important is not
always so easy.
So, gotta keep things simple.
Each of these men had the power to dominate other men's spirits to inspire their enthusiasm
and to convince them of their own ability to achieve what was asked of them.
This moving of men's spirits, this power to enthuse could only be done and was only
done by their personal contact with their men.
All my three examples were in close and frequent contact with their troops.
They were well-known, familiarly known to them and took frequent opportunities of talking
to their men.
So again, this is where that thing I spoke earlier where it's like he kind of comes
back on A, you gotta be this dominating person.
But he's talking about you gotta get out there and talk to your troops.
You gotta be really truly personally known to them.
Napoleon and Cromwell certainly in very possibly Moses too were known to their men by
nicknames and used this familiarity to help their purpose at the same time each of these
leaders knew well what the soldier was thinking and what he wanted most and they made
always careful study of the human factor.
Now it's interesting because, you know, Monti, he's known as Monti.
Everybody called in Monti and that's his nickname and that little breezy little familiarity.
And like I stole naming a unit renaming a unit when you took it over.
I stole that from David Hacworth.
I wonder if Crom, I wonder if Monti stole this nickname idea and gave himself that nickname.
What does Hacworth took you from Monti?
Well no Hacworth, well actually, is Hacworth, everyone just called Hac Hack.
Hey, everyone called me Jocco.
Like everyone.
It's funny someone said, everyone in the chain of command, the people below me in the
chain of command called me Jocco and the people above me in the chain of command called me
Jocco.
I don't call me Jocco.
So that was kind of cool, but I was just like coincidence, I don't even know why.
But Hacworth, he didn't really, I don't think Hacworth gave himself a nickname.
Yeah.
And let's face it, Hacworth other than Hacworth.
And as General Mucke Yamatollus, he had the best nickname of all time, Mr. infantry.
Is the coolest nickname ever?
Is Hac considered a nickname?
I think so.
If it's short for your job.
I think it is, yeah.
Yeah.
There are certain names that have an official shortening of it, like Richard and Rick or
you know, Jonathan and John Robert and Bob.
But yes, exactly.
Bill and William and Bill on that.
So Hac is not an official.
Right, it's unofficial.
So it sort of goes into the realm of actual nickname, not just shortening of the name.
Yeah.
I think I don't, we can research this off.
It's not coming to me off the top of my head, but pretty sure everyone called Hacac.
Yeah.
Like up and down the chain of command.
Although his soldiers back in the day probably called him sir.
That's more normal for Vietnam.
Dang.
How do you engineer a nickname, no freeze?
No, you can't do that.
Well, you can't give your nickname to yourself.
No, but you can actually, there has to be a way to sort of engineer the environment.
Oh, you can say, hey, I'm Hac, how's it going?
Yeah.
But the, I mean, if, the, you would have to be established before that, if you just
start like if I just start saying, hey, I'm dragon.
No, if you, if you checked into a military unit or you, you, you know, a new you and
you're like, hey, what's up?
I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm dragon boy.
Yeah, but that would be, no, that wouldn't work.
No, but if you said, hey, my, my name is, you know, frag mob or whatever.
He's made up, you know, your nickname all guys call me that, yeah, I went once
on my hook to grenade and, and it rolled back and, you know, yeah, bus placed.
What if he's not true though, you know, like that would mean problem.
If look, if you hook to grenade in a thing and someone called you frag mob from then on,
then boom, someone gave you that nickname.
But you can't hook a grenade.
It does whatever it is that doesn't be like, what?
I should be called, you know, you can't really do that.
No, you get a lot of nickname yourself.
No, so even if you introduce yourself, if no, no, you introduce yourself, okay, I'm
dragon boy, but I just gave that to name to myself today.
And, but, and they, for sure, they'll call you dragon boy.
But if one person finds out, oh, you just gave yourself that nickname.
Oh, yeah, they're going to be like, oh, yeah, oh, yeah, oh, you're somebody else.
Yes, sir.
So how do you do it though?
How do you know?
You know, you just got to let it.
That's what I think is important.
What's important here is that the familiarity isn't a lie.
The familiarity is real.
Yes.
That's the difference.
I know how you do it.
It's not, it's not 100% you.
It's more allowing nicknames to be seen.
You know, like, you know, some people their name, I don't know, for example, hypothetical
example, like, let's say he's like, hey, my name's Jonathan.
And then, you know, in a casual conversation, hey, John, what's up, John?
And then they'll be like, hey, it's like, no disrespect or nothing, but it's Jonathan.
They prefer the whole thing.
Maybe the whole Jonathan more beneficial one.
But like if Hackworth would have said, hey, it's Hackworth.
It's not Hack.
Then he probably wouldn't have had the name Hack.
That's true.
So when someone buss out a nickname for you, you just got to let it fly.
Yeah, well, I'll tell you in the teams when they buss out a nickname for you.
If you protest it, it's going to stick even to the door.
There you go.
So you could essentially in theory fake, actively protest exactly.
But they'd see right through that.
No, right.
You could call that fine.
Yeah, we're different again now.
Check out.
Yeah, guys.
You gotta be quick.
You gotta be sneaky with it, I guess.
All right.
Okay, back to the book.
If a leader neglects the human factor, he will fail.
No man can lead others if he does not know what they are thinking and feeling.
So again, we got Monti here who kind of talks like he's all loofing everything.
But he knows you gotta know your people.
And you gotta understand people.
And then he goes on a little shift here.
No leader, however great can long continue unless he wins victories.
Without victories in battle, all else is useless.
So what then is success in battle?
Do.
In his great study of Marboro, Mr. Winston Churchill says very truly.
And so here's a little quote from Winston Churchill.
And this is interesting.
He's talking about the Duke of Marboro who was another guy in the 1600s that fought
in the war of Spanish succession.
This guy never lost a battle, apparently.
And interesting, he was the Duke of Marboro, but his actual name was John Churchill.
And he is actually, I want to say, the great great, maybe great grandfather of Winston Churchill.
So this is Winston Churchill's bloodline.
And this is what Winston Churchill says about his great great, however many great grandfathers.
And I think that's right.
The successful commander does not arise from following rules or models.
It consists in an absolutely new comprehension of the dominant facts of the situation at
a time and all the forces at work.
Every great operation of war is unique.
What is wanted is a profound appreciation of the actual event.
There is no sure road to disaster, then to imitate, imitate the plans of bygone heroes
and to fit them to novel situations.
So there you go.
This ability to absolutely comprehend this new situation and to not try and force, not
try and force a rule or a model to work for you in a certain situation.
Back to the book, this indeed is true.
For in no war, for in war, no two situations are ever the same.
And each situation must be tackled as a wholly new problem to which there will likely
be a wholly new answer.
You need only to look at the beginning of this war.
And to and to the trust put in the magna line, here indeed was there a failure to appreciate
the new and change technique which had risen and one which rendered such fortifications
in themselves wholly useless.
The wind victories certain qualities are necessary and I will mention four which were possessed
in greater or less by all the great captains of history.
These are the knowledge of the technique of making war.
So that's interesting because Churchill just said, look, it's not using this previous knowledge.
You got to be able to apply it.
But at the same time, guess what?
You've got to have the knowledge of the technique of making war.
Next, the ability to see clearly the few essentials that are important to success.
Next, courage and mental robustness in lastly a well-balanced judgment.
He kind of goes through these in a little bit more detail.
Now, the manner in which war is waged varies from age to age and with the advent of each
new weapon.
It is a constantly changing, constantly evolving thing.
See who aspires to high command and war must thoroughly understand the main principles
which will dictate the manner in which the battle of his age will be fought.
He also must be constantly on the watch for new ideas or weapons which will affect those
principles.
The speed of change in military science during time of peace is often slow and many have
consequently allowed themselves to be lulled into false sense of security which has been
rudely shattered on the outbreak of war.
So guess what, you've got to have a open mind and you've got to pay attention.
The knowledge of how to make war also implies the ability to train troops.
Every great commander has himself had to forge his weapon for the task in front of him.
Moses led the people of Israel for 40 years in the desert teaching them how to fight and
he forged the weapon to conquer Cainan.
So also Cromwell and Napoleon, they forged their own weapon for the specific task in
hand, improvising and inventing as they went along so as to develop new tactics to deal
with the new problems with which in their day they were faced.
So you've got to study war, you've got to understand how to train your troops, continuing
on, no man can be a great military leader unless he has the ability to cut through
overlying difficulties and to see clearly the few essentials in any problem which is faced.
In any problem there are never more than a few essentials which are vital to that problem.
That's a pretty bold statement and it's also pretty true.
You get these big problems, guess what, there's only a few things that are truly essential.
Now, as you solve the first couple of essential ones there's going to be the next essential
problem.
This is prioritized next.
And simple to write.
They're both wrapped together in this thought.
These must be grasped out of the massive details and must never be lost sight of.
If in battle a commander loses sight of the few essentials that matter he will suffer
defeat.
So when you're getting distracted by these other things you're going to end up losing.
But to see the essentials clearly he must not himself get too immersed in detail.
Every great commander has had a chief of staff whose main task was the mastery of detail.
Thus leaving his master free to tackle essentials of the problem together with those details.
And only those details which were vital that problem.
Boom.
That's it.
You cannot get in the weeds.
You cannot micromanage.
You cannot look at a plan all day and expect that you're going to see something that your
troops didn't see who are doing the planning.
You need to step back.
You need to elevate yourself.
For though there is much detail in which the for though there is much detail with which a
commander cannot and must not bother himself is interesting to note that every great commander
has always concerned himself with certain of the details of his problems.
Napoleon and Wellington are two good cases in point.
No man can rise to a high command who is not the quality of courage.
The highest form of personal courage is required rather in the leader at the lower level.
Who has to plunge into the turmoil of the battlefield.
So yeah, if you're in the front line troops, you need even more courage.
The leader at the higher levels has to develop his quality of courage into a mental robustness
which can withstand the mental stress and strain with which he will be assailed.
He must at all times he must be able at all times to take a dispassionate view of the
good and bad fortune which will assail him.
Read that one again.
He must be able at all times to take a dispassionate view of the good and bad fortune which
will assail him.
So okay, bad things are going to happen.
Good things are going to happen.
Don't get all excited when some you can get all excited.
You got to be dispassionate.
You can't let your emotions start getting crazy.
You have to detach.
He must not allow himself to be distracted by events or to be led astray from his main
purpose by some glittering prize.
He must at all times maintain an unbiased view of the situation and in battle he must
be able to judge the true value of the mass of good and bad tidings which will flow upon
him.
Stay detached, stay level headed.
Go to the bad.
Is that kind of like one like, you know how you get the husband or the boyfriend or
whatever that like, you know, does something bad?
I don't know.
Flair's with a girl.
There's something like that.
Girl, girlfriends all mad.
And then so the guy goes and buys or like a necklace to say sorry.
It's like that, right?
Where don't get all caught up in the glittery stuff because, you know, no, that's not
a thing.
This is like this.
Echoes saving up to buy a house.
Yeah.
And he's saving up and he's like, okay, I saved, you know, 800 bucks last month.
I'm going to save 1200 bucks this month.
I'm going to save 900 bucks this month.
And all of a sudden you see a new car with rims.
And with has rims.
And you can get it.
You can lease it.
And all you need to lease it is, you know, $4,000.
And you're like, no, what?
How many go get that?
That's the shiny new thing.
They just took you off your main goal.
Yes.
That's nothing to do with flirting girl friends.
Well, buy a necklace this is a problem.
Well, I think yours is a better example for her.
I think so.
Yours wasn't even an example.
You missed the point.
Okay.
Yeah.
I'm trying to think of where it would be.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, so if we're going to talk like a girl that was saving for a house.
And then she's all cool necklace.
That would have been a good example.
But the flirting girl with the distraction from the boyfriend.
No, that's all.
Well, I mean, here's how I would try to connect the dots on that one.
Right.
You know, the girl's like, hey, her mission is to evaluate whether or not this is a good
boyfriend straight up.
And then so the boyfriend, he does some stuff that's fundamentally bad.
Cheats on her.
I don't know, whatever.
And then, you know, so she's sort of on that mission.
She's sort of making the evaluation.
Then boom, she gets distracted by the sparkly necklace.
Boom, she goes back to him, blah, blah, blah.
So I'm saying, no, still bad.
Not quite, not quite.
I mean, I get, get after moving on.
Every battle resolves itself into a toss-al-between the wheels of the two opposing commanders.
Unless he is mentally robust, a commander will not be able to force his will on his opponent.
It is well for a commander to remember that no battle was ever lost until the commander thought
it.
So.
A commander must have a well-balanced judgment against two balance of the economies here.
Both from the battle situation and in his dealings with his subordinates, this is straight
up, the economy of leadership.
He must, okay, now he must see the battle situation as constantly shifting interplay
of forces and he must instinctively know when to be rash and when to be cautious.
Boom, gotta be balanced.
He must weigh up the situation both at the moment and as it may develop in the future
and he must so fight his battle that the enemies reactions cannot upset his plan.
And although he is trying to force his will on his opponent, a commander must know when
discretion is the better part of Valor, his desire to dominate his opponent must not
outweigh his judgment of the actual possibilities of the situation.
Yes.
You gotta be aggressive, but you can't be foolhardy.
That's what we're saying here.
This is the dichotomy of leadership.
His judgment must always be well balanced and if it is so and if he has good information
on which to base it, he can so force the battle his way that the enemy will be forced
to conform.
He will, in fact, have rested the initiative from the enemy.
In his dealings with his subordinates, he will also require good judgment and sound knowledge
of human nature.
He must choose his subordinates well.
Those with whom he is in frequent contact, his senior generals must know personally.
He must know personally and well.
He must be able to judge when to drive and when to persuade, when to be stern, when to
give praise for all men are different and each requires handling in a different way.
So right there, he just talked about the dichotomy leadership.
When to drive and when to persuade, when to be stern, when to be give praise, got a balance
of those dichotomies.
The three leaders whom I have considered, considered, succeeded so long as they kept
in their mind their clear military purpose and were not deflected from it by any other
considerations.
But there is always the danger that other and especially political considerations will
be forced, will force the hand of the soldier and lead into some action which is militarily
unwise.
Many battles have been fought for political and not for military reasons and these have
been the graveyard of many soldiers reputation.
The soldier is the servant of the statesman and is therefore bound to be subject to political
pressure.
When every conflict with his clear military purpose, a few statesman will force the hand of
the soldier.
If the soldier very bluntly says, if I fight as you wish me to fight, I shall lose the
battle.
If I fight in my own way and in my own time, I shall win the battle.
So there you go.
That's what you got to do.
You got to call it like you see it.
But the soldier must be prepared to be very blunt and he must be prepared to stake its whole
reputation on successive given adequate resources and a free hand.
And he also must be prepared to be very firm and to refuse to be forced to do something
which he considers is not capable of being done.
So there you have it.
If you don't think something can be done, it's your moral obligation to say no.
And of course you have to weigh that with the fact that if you don't do it, someone
melts might and they might cause even more damage.
So you have to weigh that.
That conundrum.
Back to the book, in history, the military leaders frequently been tempted and has frequently
succumbed to the temptation to aspire to political leadership.
The whole training and experience of the soldier makes him less rather than more fitted to be
a politician.
So this is an interesting contrast.
The soldier is trained to stake direct action down certain well-defined lines and has
in his hand a military machine which responds immediately and with precision to his touch.
The politician is trained in subtlety and debate, in weighing up the conflicting interests
of his supporters and usually has to compromise.
The governmental machine is much less precise and exact than the military and is not as rapid
in action even in highly skilled political hands.
Now in war if Commander compromises on essentials, he fails.
Furthermore, the time factor forces the commander in the field to adopt the best expedient
in the time available, which is usually short.
The politician on the other hand is seldom forced to give an immediate decision rather he
delays in order to find out the right to an accurate answer and he avoids an temporary
expedient.
One sees his time by the forelock and adopts the best expedient.
The other procrastinates in order to ensure that what he does is exactly right.
Now I think the skits take into the extreme in both cases because you actually even as a military
leader you want to weigh and make sure you want to wait long enough to make sure you
are making a good decision.
And I think in the political world they go to the extreme of they're just going to never
make a decision.
Never going to make a change.
Therefore leader who is primarily a soldier when he metals with politics loses his
clear and simple military purpose.
He no longer sees the essentials.
He is at sea in a political world.
We read that Kromwell in politics was muddled and perplexed, working slowly and
deviously to a policy which he did not clearly see.
And again that he was confused and distracted.
So though he kept the political power in his own hands during his lifetime much of what
he built fell to pieces the moment he died.
So also Napoleon.
As long as his military purpose was up or most in his mind he succeeded but when political
considerations dominated his policy the desire to impose his will on Europe led him
to undertake military operations which it was beyond his power to achieve.
The qualities required by a soldier and by a politician are in fact almost at opposite
polls and only a few men in history have possessed both kinds of qualities.
There have not been many soldiers who have made good political politicians.
Normandy politicians who have made great soldiers.
Now the only thing I'll say is that being in the military is very political and you
even in this time I'm not going to make any distinction that oh it's more political now.
It's not the old books about World War II.
It's all kinds of politics going on inside the chain of command.
So I'm not sure why he, I'm not sure why he sees that great distinction between you
know they're being no like there's no political things.
No political games being played in the military.
There certainly is certainly is and there always has been and there always will be it's
a group of people and people are going to do the political maneuvers.
They're going to look out for themselves.
They're going to try and make this happen.
That's they're going to have an agenda.
You got to learn how to negotiate those politics whether you're in the military or whether
you're in the civilian sector doesn't matter.
Before we leave the past it is I think interesting to note that great military leaders
have on the whole been few.
There have been many generals of good average ability but few who were really great.
In the study of those who are great it is interesting to note two things first it required
a war to produce them.
Second that a number of them prove their greatness after a very short apprenticeship.
The suggests that the art of war at any rate in the past though less so now is a relatively
simple art and that the qualities which make a great commander are inherent rather than
acquired.
Interesting.
He's a little bit more saying hey you've kind of born with it.
The character and more especially the will to dominate and lead his fellow men is given
to few.
Given that power to lead the ability to gain success in war can be acquired so you can
get better at it.
A man may cultivate the qualities of a great leader provided that he hasn't inherited him
insufficient degree the character and the will to dominate.
But unless he has those inherent characteristics he will never become a great leader however
long he studies the art or the craft of war.
He is one of the phenomena of military history that events invariably produce the man.
Age has little or nothing to do with it.
The opportunity may come sooner to some later to others Napoleon was twenty-sevenly conquered
Northern Italy.
Wolf was thirty-four when he captured a Quebec at the end of the other end of the scale
marble was fifty-two when he first rose to a high and independent command.
An abracrompy conducted a short but brilliant campaign in Egypt at the age of sixty-eight.
At the end of a long lifetime.
In the careers of great generals there has always been this aspect of chance.
Opportunity comes at different ages and in different circumstances some have been lucky
or than others.
Some perhaps never had the opportunity to prove their ability.
So that's where he wraps up so much for the lessons of history.
Today the problems of military leadership are much the same as they always have been.
I propose to tell you now some of the things that have guided me in leading armies which
have been entrusted to my command.
I would say first that a leader must very clearly know what he wants himself.
He must see his objective clearly and must go all out for it.
He must let everyone else know what he wants and what are the basic fundamentals of his
policy. He must in fact give firm guidance and a clear lead.
It will be necessary for him to create what I call atmosphere.
And in that atmosphere his subordinate commanders and troops will live and work.
To do this he will have to take a very firm grip on his military machine from the top.
Only in this way will his force acquire balance and cohesion.
And so develop its full fighting potential.
History has many examples of a lack of grip being taken by a commander with the result
that he failed to develop the power of which his force was capable and so met disaster.
So this is Monti.
You got to take that firm grip.
And again it's very strange because he comes off so strong like that.
But here we go.
He's going to counter it right here.
Having laid down the basic fundamentals of his policy, a commander must complete
trust in his subordinates and must give them freedom to carry out that policy within the
framework which he has laid down.
So this is decentralized command.
He must be prepared to decentralize and to trust his subordinates to use their own initiative
on all matters of detail.
Everyone listen to that.
Don't worry about the details.
The commander himself must stand back from the detail so we can see clearly the essentials
of his problem and make sure that the correct action is being taken on those essentials.
If ever a commander allows himself to become too greatly immersed in the unimportant details
of any problem, he will fail to see the essentials clearly.
Detach, take a step back.
Elevate yourself.
It is obvious that he must be a good judge of men and a good chooser of subordinates.
He must also have the drive to get things done.
No commander will long remain in the first rank unless he achieves success.
The biggest single factor for making success in war is morale.
A high morale is based on discipline, self respect and the confidence of the soldier in his
commanders and his weapons.
It is a pearl of very great price and without it no success in battle will be achieved.
A high morale is in fact a measure of the confidence of troops of their commander.
That is an interesting point.
How do you have high morale?
It is a measurement of how confident the troops are.
When the troops are confident or the employees are confident in the boss morale is high.
When they are not confident morale is low.
By the way, with low morale, you are not winning.
Continuing on, there is no book of rules which will help a commander to gain the complete
trust and confidence of his men.
Each commander will adopt his own methods and say the ones best suited to his own personality.
Suffice it to say that he must be known, must be known personally to them.
And that success in battle will produce quick results, all soldiers will follow a successful
general.
No commander, however, will gain the confidence of his troops unless he is known and well-known
to them.
They must often see him and if possible, hear him speak.
A commander should take every opportunity of talking to his officers and men, it will
repay him according to his worth.
Got to get out there and talk to the troops.
There are other fractures, also which have a big effect on morale.
The home front and the battle on the front nowadays has never before very closely linked.
So you got to keep that morale up and get to make sure everything is going to go to the
home front and see imagine what it is linked like now.
I mean, he is talking about World War II.
World War II.
Hey, we are very closely linked because I can write a letter that is going to get to my
wife nine weeks from now.
And now we got brothers on Facebook Live.
Nightly.
Continuing on, just as success is a great stimulus to morale, so nothing lowers morale
so quickly as failure.
Therefore there must be no failures.
Great and lasting harm can be done to morale by undertaking operations for which the
troops concerned are not ready or trained and which they are likely to end in failure.
I have therefore made it a rule to limit the scope of any operation to what can be achieved
successfully.
So again, this sounds super risk-averse and that's that is.
Hey, I'm not going to do anything that I don't know we can achieve it.
Then again, how often do you want to be rolling the dice?
Why not say you know what?
Well, let's give it another month.
Let's train a little bit more.
What do we have to do this right now?
And I certainly think that there's times when you have to take risk and you're going
to do some things that maybe you don't know if you can get away with.
And there can be times where you're forced in that position as well.
Like you're being attacked and hey, I'm not sure if a flank is going to work but we can
either sit here and get attacked and get flanked by them or we can go and flank ourselves.
Let's let's go make this happen.
So I think we need to make sure we don't take that rule that comment to the extreme because
that can be a bit much but consider it, consider it deeply.
And I think probably the reason why this is probably one of those points where he said
in the beginning of this, he made the premise that hey, this is for Army command, right?
Or at least divisional command.
We're talking to your in charge of 10,000 people or more.
You know what he's saying, maybe when I guess it becomes more acceptable of a rule, you
don't want to risk 10 out.
You don't want to risk an entire army or an entire division on something that you may
or may not be successful at, right?
Maybe we need to reassess if we're not sure we can make this happen, maybe we need to reassess
if we're going to go forward or not.
Another thing that today has a big effect on morale is the standard of medical care, which
soldiers can expect.
So you got that.
And then we get to a commander must make a very close study of human nature.
The raw material with which he has to deal are men.
And it is important to remember that all men are different.
What a commander makes of the human material at his disposal will depend entirely on himself.
I have found that every division, which has fought under my command, has had a different
characteristics.
Each division was good at a different type of battle.
And it is vital that the commander should gauge what type of battle is best at and make
sure that each division is at the right point when required.
So even in the quote, uniformity of the military, they have differences.
They're human beings.
And those differences are reflected through whole units.
The difference between divisions is based partly on the individual individuality of the
commander of the division.
And partly on the type of men of whom the division is composed.
I found for instance that some divisions were outstandingly good at the breakthrough attack,
but were not so good at the deliberate set piece of error.
Some divisions were best at night, some by day, for a solid killing match, certain types
of men were better than others.
And so on.
Each division develops an individuality of its own, which I consider a high commander, must
study.
I was in the airport and I ran into a dude from South Africa who was in the game kind of
big done.
He was talking about, he said to Gias, I can't do it.
They're accent.
But he was saying that he worked construction, he was a construction guy, and he had
a crew.
And he gave his crew a name.
And I should have asked him what the name of the crew was, but I didn't.
But I'm sure they gave him some kind of name.
And he was like, he was just so pumped.
And he goes, yeah, I read it in Hackworth II, and then I did it.
Could you did it?
And he goes, it really worked.
It was all fired up.
Because you can change the personality of something.
You can change the personality of a unit like that.
You can do it.
It works.
In the same way, all generals differ.
And must be selected for the job.
And no two jobs, no two problems are ever the same in the character of the job must be
matched to that of the commander selected to undertake it.
One of the most important functions of a commander in the war to make sure that he has
the right man in the right place to tackle the job in hand.
So think about that.
When you're in charge of a team, when you're in charge of a business, one of the most
important things that you do is put the right people in the right job.
When people are sensitive to that.
So when I'm like, hey, hey, Bill, I'm not giving you this off.
I'm giving it to Echo.
And Bill gets mad and frustrated and he's things to echo doesn't deserve it.
Man, we got to have a good enough relationship and trust that when I say, hey, Bill, this
is not for you.
I'm giving it to Echo.
And he goes, okay, cool.
Let me know what's coming down the pile.
No, I can get ready for it.
Let me know how I can support.
Yeah.
Yeah, that.
Remember, remember the movie Major League.
Charlie Sheen, come on.
Yeah.
I don't think I ever sat through that whole movie.
Oh, actually, you know what I think I asked you that before.
Yeah.
I think you said the same thing.
So there's a spark where it's okay.
So Charlie Sheen, he got his glasses.
Oh, yeah.
That's what we were talking about last time.
So last time, as far as Major League goes, the movie Major League.
So Charlie Sheen, he had all this crazy power and speed in his fastball.
But no, no control.
Then they find out whatever he can't see that good.
They give him some glasses.
Boom, he brings it all together.
They start winning on this stuff.
So he's starting.
The other guy who was starting before him is named Harris, older guy.
But you know, the basically the more consistent.
He's not like legit, like Charlie Sheen, but he's consistent.
So they're about to play the fast-forward.
They're about to play the gate keys.
Right, and the big game.
Or there's that called the word series.
It's like this big deal.
And so the general manager, Lill, calls Charlie Sheen.
Oh, this is name and we'll be Charlie Sheen.
Doesn't matter.
Doesn't matter anyway.
Because it calls Charlie Sheen to the back of the bus and he's like, hey, I'm going to
start Harris against the Yankees.
He just has a better reputation against them and more experience, whatever.
And then Charlie Sheen was like, oh, yeah, whatever is best for the team.
Any laugh.
And that's sort of it.
So he was good with it.
No, I don't know how the movie goes on.
And he's not good with it.
He expressed himself like he was good with it.
And he said the right things, but later on, he goes on like goes drinking by himself or
something.
Then he winds up hooking up with like one of his teammates life.
And that was all, but that's a whole other story though.
We don't actually care about any of this, but we definitely care about that.
Rick, Ron, that's his name.
Wild thing, Rick, Ron.
There you go.
But same deal though, right?
You got to get the right guy.
Yeah.
And of course, you nailed it.
Yeah, nailed it.
You eventually, Harris, you know, he does okay.
And then they bring our Rick fun to fit the clothes out of the game, whatever the win.
So there you go.
Boom.
Win, win.
Back to the book.
Back through the book.
If a commander thinks at all men are the same, and he treats the mass of human material
accordingly, he will fail.
The soldiers of today have different standards and require more enlightened handling.
Then the soldiers of bygone days.
This is again where he starts to, you realize that this guy, even though he tries to come
across all hard, he's actually very thoughtful about understanding humans back to the book.
They will no longer follow blindly and unquestionably to an unknown end.
Today, therefore, a commander must ensure that his troops always know what they are being
asked to do and how that fits in with the larger plan.
I have always, in other words, they got no why they're doing what they're doing.
I've always insisted that before a battle be essentials of the plan are known right through
the chain of command and finally down to the rank and file.
The troops must know how a commander is going to fight the battle and what part they are
going to plan it.
This must be explained to them by word of mouth for that counts far more than the written word.
And then when the battle has been won and the troops see that the battle has gone as the commander
said it would, their confidence in the high command will be very great.
This confidence is beyond price.
The problem with that statement is it puts pressure on you to stick to a plan.
Just get it flat.
That makes you go, I'm just going to stick with it because I want everyone to think
that it went the way I wanted it to go.
No, don't just stick with a plan.
If it's not working, it's not working.
Shift.
A commander must watch carefully his own morale.
A battle is a contest between the will of two opposing commanders.
The one whose heart fails when the issue hangs and the balance will lose the battle.
A commander in fact must throughout radiating confidence in his plan and operations.
Even though inwardly he may not be too sure of the outcome.
That's the one of those other things.
You know, people talk about transparency.
Sure.
Right?
Transparency.
Oh, guess what?
And it's like, oh, yeah, there's a book.
There's all kinds of book about transparency.
Yeah.
Like, oh, you got to be fully transparent with everyone.
No, actually sometimes if I'm a little more nervous about what we're doing and I start
to show that everyone's going to be nervous about what we're doing.
Yeah, man.
And add scene.
Yeah, they can, and sometimes too, where like, like how you mentioned before,
like some people can't take the truth, you know?
So like if there's certain shifts going to be made or certain like rules going to be implemented
or whatever, you know, like, hey, we're going to move, we're going to demote this or
we're going to move this person out of this department because he's just he's he's he's
he stinks or something like he has B.O. and he's irritating everybody, you know, kind
of thing.
Okay.
And he'll be just do just as good a work down here.
Yeah.
And where he's by himself exactly right, you know?
And it's like, hey, and then we're going to shift you over here and he's going to be like,
cool, like, why, though, like I'm done to do it, but why do you be transparent?
Maybe maybe not, but you run the room.
No, you run the room.
I mean, what we're saying.
The good thing to do would be like, hey, man.
Hey, bro.
Let me ask you something.
If I had a bugger hanging out on my nose, would you want, would you, would, if you had
a bugger hanging out on your nose, would you want me to tell you?
Everyone says, yeah, of course, cool, you stink.
I actually, you smell that.
That's good.
What about stinky geese on the mat?
Yeah.
Right?
Somebody's got to let him know.
Bro, you got to watch that thing.
You might need a new geek.
You know, some people they have this old rady geek, the smell is embedded in those things.
I had geese like that.
Yeah.
Where's like you wash it and then you wash it and you take it out, you put it on for four
minutes.
And you go, yeah, I got to throw this thing away.
This thing stinks.
Yeah.
That's true.
That would be a better way to do it.
That way, I say, hey, why don't you move to the beginner class?
Go drill.
Go work with the grappling dummy over there.
It's like, no, that's not cool.
You need to tell a brother.
Hey, man, you stink at it.
You need to wash your geek.
Wash your geek immediately.
Yeah.
So this is one of those things where if you need to talk to him, right?
In that situation, you do need to tell the truth.
You know, you do need to say, listen, man, I don't know what's up with your hygiene.
Okay.
But you some work.
So what if the company is taking this massive financial hit and laughs are coming?
She's great up.
You lay off one guy.
You lay off two guys.
Do you be transparent?
Like, hey, guys, we're taking a massive hit.
We're laid off a bunch of people.
Well, yeah, in that case, you have to say, listen, this is what's going on.
This is where we're at.
And we're going to do our best.
And the best way we can do this is by buckling down hard and working hard.
But right now, it's going to be tight.
Going to go through a tight quarter right now.
We had to let go of two guys.
We're going to try and maintain what we got.
But I can't promise you anything.
Right?
Yes.
Yes, I'm going to be truthful.
Maybe it is better to be transparent.
Most of the time it is.
What we do?
It's in this situation.
What we're talking about is if you lack confidence in what you're doing, or you start
to reveal that to the internet, it's not good.
And you know, there's now, let's say, let's say echo, let's say I didn't think you were
cognitively capable of doing a job at the next level.
I might not necessarily tell you that because that's something that you can't necessarily
change.
You can't go home, take a shower and get smarter.
Right?
Does it work that way?
No, sir.
You can't put on the odorant and now you're smarter.
That doesn't work.
It's smelling bad is not necessarily a bad problem because it's something that can be fixed.
But if you aren't smarter enough, well, then we have a situation.
You can't really, I mean, you can study, you can work, but you're not going to get smarter.
So it might not be a great idea for me to say, well, you know, I decided not to, you're
not getting promoted, because you're dumb.
Yeah, he's just a lot smarter.
Yeah, you know, here's the deal, man.
Just straight up, you're not that smart, right?
So I couldn't put you into our Japan, because you're not smart.
Now that's different than me saying, hey, listen, man, six months ago, if I was like,
hey, listen, man, you need to start paying attention.
Because what you're doing right now, if you're going to move up, you've got to really
know, it's going to take you some extra study.
And look, I'm not the sharpest tool in the shed.
And I know I have to work hard at making this stuff happen.
Do you look at your, do you look at your manuals at all?
Have you been studying your manuals?
You need to like dig into your manuals and really know this stuff.
If you think you're going to get promoted, you're not going to get promoted unless you know
this stuff like the back of your hand.
You need to get in the game.
So if we've already been through that whole thing and you actually got out the manuals
and you tried and you didn't make anything happen, well, guys, what?
Hey, man, it's just not that many opportunities at this next up.
And by the way, I think there's another kind of course of career course that I have thinking
for you, you know?
So let's talk about that.
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah, definitely.
Something that requires large biceps.
I think it's going to be your area of expertise.
Thanks.
Check.
Go back to the book.
In order that he may keep clear of unimportant details and thus have time for the quiet
thought and reflection, higher commander must work through a chief of staff and thus avoid
having to deal separately with the heads of all branches.
So far as I'm aware, the British Army is the only army which is not adopt the chief
of staff system.
In my own experience, it is quite possible to it is quite impossible to exercise high
command successfully in war without it. I have adopted the chief of staff system myself throughout
this war and could not have succeeded out of us.
So you're going to have someone that's going to handle things for you.
Little things.
You know, I was talked about the senior enlisted guy, you know, a platoon chief or an
task unit or, you know, a platoon or a company, an army company.
The senior enlisted guy, I always said was the action arm of the commander.
So when you need something done, I don't know.
I don't have time to go do it myself.
And if I go do do myself, I'll have lost the bigger picture.
But if I have something critical, you've got the senior enlisted individual that has the
most tactical experience, has the most authority, the most respect.
So when you say, hey, chief, that building over there hasn't been cleared yet.
I don't know what's going on.
Go clear that thing and you'll say, Roger that or the platoon sergeant or the company
first sergeant.
Those guys should have the experience and attack the expertise and then be utilized as the
action arm that can make things happen.
Now that's not exactly what a chief for staff of is.
It's actually quite different.
But it's similar in the fact that you can't get sucked into the weeds.
And if you're the commander of a division and you're in the weeds all the time, you don't
have, you can't see what's happening.
And it's the same thing in a business.
If the CEO of the business is running the business daily, he's not looking up and out.
He's looking down in and that's not going to allow him to make foresee what's coming
down the pipe in the future.
And that's pretty much what it says here.
No officer whose daily life is spent at the consideration of details, who is not time for
quiet fought and reflection can make a sound plan of battle or conduct large-scale operations.
The wise commander is the one who uses a chief of staff who sees very few papers or letters
himself and who sees that the majority of reports that are made to him are verbal and short.
Only in this way giving himself plenty of time for quiet fought and reflection will he be, will he keep himself
mentally fresh and capable of producing the sound plan of operations which will defeat his
enemy.
For the plan of operations must always be made by the commander and he must not be forced
upon him, by his staff, by his circumstances or by the enemy.
That's pretty important.
Why are you allowing the circumstances or the enemy to dictate how you're going to do
things?
You're going to be a good call.
A commander must decide how he will fight the battle before it begins.
He must decide how he will use the military effort at his disposal to force the battle
to swing the way he wishes it to go.
To be able to do this, his dispositions must be so balanced that he can ignore enemy reactions
and continue with his own plan until he is certain of success.
He has got to strive to read the mind of his opponent to anticipate heavy enemy reactions
to his own moves and to take quick steps to prevent enemy interference with his own
plan.
This is a little bit sketchy to me because now we're talking about hey I'm just driving
forward with my plan no matter what.
I don't like that attitude.
I want to be flexible.
I'm going to try and stick to my plan, but I'm going to be flexible.
This is one where, you know, man, I don't even know.
This is one of those things where sometimes I would get guys that would there be a little
change.
They come up with a plan.
They spend all this time planning for a mission and there'd be a little change.
Maybe they get ready to go out and some imagery comes in and it shows something little
but different or maybe they get some intel.
It's a little bit different and they decide they're going to they've already planned.
They've already rehearsed.
They already know what they're doing.
Everyone's kind of walk through and they decide they're going to change their whole
plan because of some little thing.
Now it's a man don't change your whole plan.
I get you want to make a little adjustment.
You want to take a little fire team and have them make an adjustment.
Take a squad, make him do something.
That's okay.
Don't try and rearrange your whole plan.
You've already rehearsed.
You have to un-rehears.
You know, hard that is.
If the un-programmed your team, that is really hard to do.
So sometimes, and I use this is actually one of those things that slowly I don't really talk
about very often because but I used to use to be in the combat leadership brief I used
to give.
You used to say don't fall for 6% advantage over the enemy.
What I meant by that was, and I used to draw a target up on the dry erase board.
It's okay.
You're going to take down this target so you come up with a plan.
How do you want to do it?
I was just set up an L and base maneuver.
Okay, cool.
You're getting ready to go out and do this.
You find out that there's an outhouse over the berm over here and there's a chance to
go out in the morning that the guy could be in that outhouse.
What do you want to do?
Some guys would completely change their whole plan.
Completely change their whole plan.
Meanwhile, we're launching in two minutes or eight minutes or 20 minutes.
They've planned this.
They've rehearsed it.
Everyone knows what their job was.
The whole team came up with a plan together.
I mean, it's like a, it's really in their brains.
Now they see this little detail because there's a chance that at three o'clock in
the morning when you hit this target, that the guy that you're looking for is in the
outhouse.
So we're going to change our whole plan to make up for this tiny percentage chance that
this guy is even in the outhouse.
Not a good call.
Can you break off a fire team?
That's going to move over to a position where they can at least keep an eye on the
outhouse.
That's fine.
But don't change your whole damn plan based on this little 6% chance that the enemy
might do something you didn't expect.
Or no, the enemy that's something is very unlikely of happening.
It's not that you didn't expect it.
Things that you don't expect, that's why you have contingency plans, which is like
hey, when we find in, if we see any other out buildings that we missed on the
imagery, we have a fire team designated to go and get eyes on those things from the
high ground.
That's contingency plan.
That works.
Going back to the commander here, he has got always to be a very clear
thinker and must aim to be always one move ahead of his opponent.
I actually prefer to be a 5-boos at my opponent.
To do this, he must simplify the problem.
Whenever a problem arises, he must think out the few points, which will form the
framework of the solution.
The few things that will really matter.
So long as the solution to the problem is based on those few things that really matter,
the solution will be on the right lines.
Solid.
You have like this pathway.
And as long as the pathway is what you want to achieve, as long as you're doing things
that are on the pathway, you're getting there.
When you start doing things that are off the pathway, we get a problem.
Sometimes you've got to look at your subordinates and say, hey, it's not even on the path,
in the direction that we're heading, because it doesn't seem like a domain.
A commander must at all times exercise personal command.
That is to say he must give, must see and give full verbal orders or instructions to
his subordinate generals on how the battle is to be fought.
Operational command in the field must be direct and personal.
No written order can ever be the equivalent of a direct verbal command.
Interesting.
And I, my standard is, I do both.
I say, hey, I go, here's what we're doing.
Hey, do you understand this?
Do you have any questions?
Cool.
And I send you a message that says, hey, I go this is what we talked about.
This is what you're doing.
Making sure you understand.
If I can, I'm going to do both.
If you're going to do one, yes, verbal is better.
Most of the time.
A commander must therefore understand how to give verbal orders to his subordinates.
No two generals are the same, each will require different treatment, each will react differently
by exercising personal command.
A commander can exert a far greater and more exact influence on the battle and the confidence
which will grow up between the commander and his generals will be of great value.
The whole chain of command can thus and only thus be built into a united team who strength
this based on mutual confidence and understanding.
Relationships.
It's all relationships.
What is talking about right there?
When the whole army is built into one great team, united in working all out for a common
purpose, the result is terrific.
Success in war is due to good teamwork by all members of the fighting forces and to the
correct use which is made of all members by the team of the team by the commander and
his staff.
The failure in war is always due to one of two causes to faulty command or to bad staff
work and sometimes to both.
I can think of no instance where the failure has been due to a failure of the fighting
man.
The British fighting man will always do what is asked of him, but you must make sure that
he understands what he is asked to do and also that it is within his capacity to do it.
If your team is not doing what it is, you want them to do the first person you should
check is yourself.
If you're giving people complex orders that they don't understand, there's no possible
with it.
They can execute those plans.
Here's how he closes this out.
Finally, I do not believe that today a commander can inspire great armies or single units
or even individual men and lead them to achieve great victories unless he has a proper
sense of religious truth.
He must be prepared to acknowledge it and to lead his troops in the light of that truth.
He must always keep his finger on the spiritual pulse of his army.
He must be very sure that the spiritual purpose which inspires them is right and true and
it's clearly expanded to one and all.
Unless he does this, he can expect no lasting success.
So, you've got to believe in what you're doing.
For all leadership, I believe is based on the spiritual quality, the power to inspire others
to follow.
This spiritual quality may be for good or may be for evil.
In many cases, this quality has been devoted toward personal ends and was partly or wholly
evil.
And whenever this was so in the end, it failed.
For leadership which is evil, while it may temporarily succeed, always carries within
it the seeds of its own destruction.
That's a solid one.
Beater ship which is evil, while it may temporarily succeed, always carries within it the
seeds of its own destruction and that is a theory that I fully believe.
And I believe in it on that level, on that high consequence level.
But I also believe in on a much less dramatic level.
And this is something that you deal with every day.
And that's the leader that is looking out for himself.
The leader that puts himself above his team.
That leader is eventually going to fail.
Even though they may temporarily succeed, same thing.
They may temporarily succeed.
But eventually they are going to fail.
That's what's going to happen.
And I will tell you something else that is true in that is the opposite is that of that.
And that is if you are doing the right things for the right reasons, then you may temporarily
fail.
But you will have the seeds for victory.
The seeds for victory.
And the reason that I say seeds is very specific.
There's a reason why I'm saying that is because seeds are not guaranteed to grow.
Because you have good intention doesn't mean that you're going to win.
Doesn't mean that you're going to achieve victory.
It means you have the seeds for victory.
Because once you plant those seeds, you have to water them.
And you have to nourish them.
And you have to protect them from birds and from squirrels and from vermin.
And you have to work.
You have to plant those seeds.
And then you have to make those seeds grow.
And if you do that and you continue to do that, then you move forward and you're doing
it for the right reasons.
In the end you are going to win.
And you know that middle section of this, Monti went pretty deep, talking about morale
and he has a whole other section here that I've got on morale.
But I think we're going to save that for another podcast.
That's where all ready to hours do.
Until then, echo Charles, if we want to keep our morale high, if we want to nourish the seeds,
we want to protect them.
Sure.
And we want to do the right things for the right reason.
Always.
We're doing, just dominate.
Or we're doing dominate.
We're kind of looking at something or looking at dominate.
We're possibly looking at a dominate.
We're not looking at a dominate.
Man.
No.
But you've got to be able to.
We'll probably come.
We'll revisit that word.
But you have to.
We'll do the full study of that word and dig deep.
At a minimum, it means hey, we're going to dominate.
I'm going to, if it's got dominates the room and a positive way.
Yeah.
At the extreme, it's like this guy just has a dominant personality.
The problem is how often do you see the person with a dominant personality that runs
everyone the wrong way?
Happens all the time.
Dominant.
Like, Dominary.
Yeah.
This guy's got a dominant.
You know, we don't want to want some on the team.
Yeah.
Because you can't get a word in that twice.
That's why I question the use of this word.
Yeah.
Now, that being said, and I can see this.
Oh, I can see this.
Just because someone has the will to dominate.
And it's strong.
Doesn't mean that they sit there and rub everyone the wrong way.
Because if they really had the will to dominate, what they would do is back off.
And allow others to step up and allow others to have their say and allow others to try and lead.
And to actually lead.
Yeah.
If they were really going to play the game, they might have the strongest will to dominate.
But they don't act that way because they realize that that's counterproductive to actually dominating.
Yeah.
You look like you're confused.
I mean, not, yeah.
I mean, I don't know what to check it out.
So check it out.
Confused.
But I think that if.
I feel like there's just a there's a more general broad use or meaning for that word.
That's what I think.
So I think you're right.
That being said, it could also be.
If you have somebody that has a strong incredibly powerful will to dominate, but they realize that that is abrasive.
And it is not the best way to actually win in a situation.
They will modulate and they will tamper that will to dominate.
So that it best serves the accomplishment of the mission.
And therefore best serves their domination.
Yeah.
And I think they, you know, it just does feel at this point right now.
It feels like that might be kind of a reach.
It's like that thing that I talked about at the master of.
Of what is what is leadership.
And and I talk about how like leadership is winning in all costs.
And there's been some people that say, well, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Winning at all costs seems like a bad attitude.
But the whole.
Because you put a clip like that for an advertisement for the master in a little master clip.
Sure.
You put me going leadership is winning at all costs, right?
And there was something that culminated commented on our on the echelon front extreme ownership.
Facebook, private group.
That, you know, I don't know if I like this.
This seems a little bit that doesn't seem like a good attitude.
And you know, I replied that, hey, you have to hear the whole thing.
That's only a few seconds.
Because what it goes on to say is if you really want to win, then you'll compromise, then you'll make exceptions, then you build relationships and you'll take a back step and you'll put your you will subordinate your ego.
Yeah, that's the biggest thing that I got.
Biggest thing.
We will subordinate your ego because you'll put the mission above your own personal will to dominate.
You'll subordinate your will to dominate so that you can actually win in the long term in the long game.
Yeah, it's important to remember if you heard you hear the whole speech of it or the whole segment we'll say.
Yeah, is that yeah, you talk like a lot about where like there's like battles and then there's the overall victory and like there's all this stuff.
Yeah, sure.
There's the dramatic parts when you're like nothing's going to get in my way, but yeah, like you sacrifice so much where.
Okay, so when you say we know all costs it kind of this is what it sounds like if you just hear that line.
Yeah, nothing's going to get in my it sounds like even at the cost of like half of my men or something.
Not only that, but in the corporate world, I'll just step on anyone I need to do right.
I'll all send bad product out to the consumers and I don't care if they get hurt or I don't care if it's I don't care whatever I'm just going to win.
Yeah, like that.
Yeah, that's what that's what people think.
So yeah, so in that guy's defense, it sounds like that, but again, the whole speech really, I mean really the one of the main actually the takeaway if not anything is like winning what is winning.
Like, you know, if I lose half of my men, did you really win?
I think you actually say that's not a victory, but also how can you carry on with your mission?
You can't you get your mission in cable one now.
Yeah, I'm actually putting I'm actually putting that I'm going to I'm going to write that down capture that and I'm going to redo it for EF online.
What that that that part that part.
Yeah, you know, so that way people can understand what winning at all costs what what that means what I'm talking about.
Yeah, so we'll put that on EF online.
If anybody wants to check that out.
Yeah, if you don't know what that is.
EF online is interactive leadership training from my company, Eshelon Front where we travel the world teaching companies, businesses, organizations about leadership.
In the course of doing that, we eventually got to a point where we couldn't service all the people that wanted our service.
And be some of the companies that we could service, we couldn't service all their employees because they have 50,000 employees and they want to have everyone get trained by Eshelon Front.
So talking to Lave during a board meeting.
Are you sure?
Yes, so Lave and I were surfing that said brother, we need to figure out a way to scale this stuff.
And we, you know, I asked it, let's let's look at doing something online and Lave was initially like,
what makes sense by the way?
Yeah, for sure.
No, and I, I wanted to explore and I wasn't like all and out of the gate, but I was feeling pretty good about it because I'd seen some stuff.
Lave really hadn't seen anything.
You know, he'd basically seen, well, used to get trained online in the Navy.
Yeah, like for some just, the most ridiculous sort of things that send you some online training.
Yeah, if you get a DUI, this is you know, check this box if you think you're going to be in trouble. You know, you know, you're just really not the best training and that's kind of what Lave had in mind.
Yeah.
But eventually we decided to take a look at it and once we looked at it, it's like, oh man, there's the capabilities unbelievable to do interactive training and all that stuff.
So we invested in it, we did it and now we've got this thing.
We used it primarily, we used it primarily for our enterprise clients. So when our clients work in the company and they go, well, what are we going to do with our other 14,000 employees?
How are we going to train them? Well, here you go.
Now, now that's what they're doing. They're training through that.
Great feedback and, you know, the decision was, well, you know, there's not everyone is in a big company and so maybe some of the smaller companies or just individuals.
Because sometimes, you know, look at some of those people come to the master and they're paying their own way to come to the master obviously and their their companies not supporting it.
But they want to improve. So that's why they're there at the master.
Well, it's the same thing with the EF online.
Sometimes you might just do it on your own because you want to become a better leader. Why not get the experience of the echelon front team?
The principals in practice, you get to try and so that's what it is. So anyways, we add modules every month like new training.
And so I'm going to put the what is leadership and the winning at all costs thing on there. So people can listen to what that's really about and what it really means.
Yeah, yeah, that broader views important in my opinion.
Also, what's important in my opinion is the key you get for jiu-jitsu when you're doing jiu-jitsu. Yes, it's thing when you start jiu-jitsu and you put on a key. You don't have any basis for comparison. You know, I'm just staying home important that is.
If you want to put on a straight jacket when you take a drive around the block.
No, correct. Sometimes you have to run.
You do it. And that's what it'll feel like if you buy one of these other geese.
Yeah, sometimes anyway. So the key you get is origin. You get an origin, ghee. Many selections on there.
Yeah, to fit who you are.
And also there's jeans on there. Yes, there is.
Yeah, I say origin jeans. Major America American denim American denim.
And they don't have their live well. You need to order a pair then. All right. Maybe it will get some. Okay.
Yeah, their live. They are awesome. Highest quality possible. Every detail.
Go if you want to find out what because the jeans.
They're right now. The price point is 124 bucks. That's a lot of money for a pair of jeans. I understand that. If you buy two pairs is 99 bucks each. Here's the deal.
If you want to know why they cost that much, go on to origin, BJJ.
Facebook and watch Pete's video where he breaks down the details in the jeans.
You can see the whole thing. Why every little detail is covered denim pockets.
Belt, every little thing is done perfectly to the next level. And so they're more expensive.
Because we're just kicking it off. Once we get, once we keep building them, we'll get more efficient.
So yeah, eventually the price is going to come down. If you can't afford them right now, I meant it's cool. Let's go. I get it.
Do jeans have the whole situation of the first edition? Well, they are technically right now. You can get first edition.
Yeah, but that would be like a first batch of them. First run. What he's first in his life right now.
Yeah, first edition.
But you ever seen those like designer jeans that cost like $300, how they're made?
This is where you see people that are scraping them with rocks. Yeah, no, well, no, no, it's worse.
Because I've seen worse. It's worse than that. So they get regular jeans, whatever, and it's a certain color.
And it's just denim from wherever. And this factory in, I forget where.
But you know, a factory in a factory in some China.
Yeah, I think it's China in Pakistan or in India. And there's, you know, these little kids that are nine years old exposed to chemicals.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
The one I saw on a little bit was more tame than that. But nonetheless, they're like super like 300 L jeans or two figures or something like this.
And they go and the way they're made, I'm like, how is that even worth 300? Like they cut the jeans like normal.
And it's like denim, you know, whatever. And then they do them like, and they put like this steam on them and then they send it to the next person.
The next station in the factory. And the next station has this like, it's almost like a like a fishing line on a, what do you call like a wheel.
Like to make it look abused or whatever.
Exactly. So it was, and it spins on the jeans and it makes it look a certain level of abuse to the, or whether it or what he called this distress.
And then it goes to the next little station and this person at the station is just doing everything or one same thing.
Put it, put it, put it, you know, next station. The next station has like a little, another thing to help it kind of do it. The next station folded it.
And so I watch that thing with Pete on my point. And I'm like, oh man, I make sense. This all makes sense. Like this is deep, you know, this is good.
Maybe when I get one. Obviously.
But I thought back to that factory and I'm thinking, man, how is that worth like $300 or whatever for that thing?
It was such a throwaway process like when you, you know, when you see it and feel it. So I dig it man.
They dig it and they are made in America by the way.
Yeah, for sure. They're made in America. They're made in Maine. They're the cotton from America is died in America.
It's woven in America. And yeah, the price point is more expensive than what you're going to pay.
Hey, you know, I don't want you to go out and spend your last dollar on this pair of orange and jeans. No, man.
But if you want to help out and you want the bet they are the best possible jeans you get. If you want them, then cool.
That'd be cool.
Yep.
But don't need to freak out.
I'm not freaking out on my end.
We're trying to make good, we're trying to make good quality products and our real mission is long term mission.
We're trying to bring manufacturing back to America. We want these, we want to get these jeans down to a price point. How do we do that?
Increase the volume. Make more of them. There'll be economies of scale. We'll be able to lower the prices for sure.
Absolutely. You know what? We talked to some.
Gene people, denim people. They, they wanted us to charge $300 for these jeans.
Yeah.
Because they're like, well, you know, these are.
Wait, what do they say? They were premium?
Premium jeans, but there was another word too. Anyways, you know, there's, there's people that pay that kind of money for jeans.
Are they?
One of them.
Yeah.
You know?
I don't know.
But anyways.
Yeah. Either way, well, the good news about the whole situation, including made in America, they do have other stuff.
So, and at the moment, I haven't talked about these shorts.
So, and I don't know if you notice what I wear all the time.
Yes.
But the only thing I wear is these shorts.
Only one straight up. I mean, unless it's like, you know, to train or something like this, but like just around is only the origin shorts of the shark.
Shark.
Or whatever. Yeah.
I have like six pairs of them.
It's like the same thing. So, I'm sure it's like, you know, if you go through your routine, like, you know, with the store.
They're like, probably the sky wears the same shorts every day, but, well, one of them has a green logo.
They have another black logo.
Either way, these are literally the best shorts in the, like, ever made that I've put on straight up.
Yes.
So, you can get those.
Yeah, go Charlie.
There you go.
That's me in the mirror. He all a big time. And I'm, that's for real though.
Yeah.
Well, you also said that about their, their joggers.
Well, you know, those are the most comfortable for sure.
Yeah.
And, and, well, and, you know what, let's show you what I'm trying on joggers.
You told me about it.
It was, yeah.
The whole idea is that sounds ridiculous.
Yeah.
You don't have a jogger, uh, what do you call, physique?
What do you need to, what's the jogger physique?
I'm like skinny knees or what.
I don't know that I can put my finger on what exactly a jogger physique is, but I can tell you that I don't have it.
I can firm that.
Yeah.
So, don't worry about the joggers if you're jockel, but if anyone else, those joggers are,
factually, the most comfortable, uh, jogger, sweat situation, close, in existence.
Currently, currently.
You got some supplements, too.
Uh, joint warfare, criminal, discipline, discipline, go.
We were on a Skype, or uh, yeah, this business Skype call today.
And Jason Gardner was on.
And you, you know, you can do your little video.
Uh, my little video, I don't know which one.
Jake, no, little video like Skype, Skype, you know, Skype is.
It's video company, you tell a comforting.
Yeah.
Oh, guys.
Jason Gardner's like, like pulls out his bottle of discipline going.
It opens it up and like takes one of Jason's uh, super animated.
Yes.
You know, when he gets this big wire smile on his face, because he took a cup of hits of the discipline.
Go.
Anyways, so we got that.
Get if you need to get in the zone.
We also have milk, mint, milk, peanut butter, milk, vanilla gorilla.
The darkness chocolate.
And now live.
Strawberry.
Strawberry slayer.
Oh, yeah.
Boy.
All right.
So let me tell you.
Get that strawberry.
Just straight up.
That thing is a dessert.
Okay.
So we like to know how well it's, it's the, the, the, the kids, the warrior can milk.
Which is strawberries awesome.
The chocolate's good.
The strawberries awesome.
The chocolate's good too.
And strawberries awesome.
And I just was telling Brian, no, hey man, I don't care.
I'm going to make it a bigger scoop in or whatever.
Just re-duplicate it.
But you know, he's like, no, it's got a more protein.
It's a don'ts blah blah blah.
And somehow he made it.
It's actually, it's actually better or at least as good.
Might be better.
It's so good.
Dude, it's so good.
It's ridiculous.
It's a straight up dessert.
It tastes like a milkshake straight up.
If you mix it with milk, which is what I mix it with.
It tastes like a strawberry milkshake.
It tastes better than a strawberry milkshake.
So if it's so good, it's ridiculous.
Okay, you got a blind taste test.
You got all the protein that you need.
Here you go.
And then you have blind taste test.
You got to imagine because you know the difference I get it.
So you have a cup of warrior could milk, strawberry, adult mold.
We'll just say, milk.
Yeah.
Strawberry.
Right.
Which one are you going to choose?
Which one are you, you, you, you.
I think I'm going to go for the adult.
I thought you were going to throw a hog and a strawberry shake in there.
Oh yeah.
Here's the deal.
I'm not picking the hog and a toss.
It's too much.
Yeah, that's kind of why I didn't say it.
And it's not even too much in a good way.
It's too much in a bad way.
Right.
It's like you don't want to drink it.
The strawberry milk you're like,
Just pounding it.
Yeah.
It's true.
Actually feeling good about things.
Yeah.
Interesting.
All right.
Well, I'm going to try that one.
Because I have no actually weight.
I think he might as well.
He should have put some in the mail.
Yeah.
It just came out.
I have not tried it yet, but we'll report back to 100%.
Yeah.
100%.
Jocca weight, too, as well.
Yes.
Don't forget about that.
It'll get you to eat 1,000 pound deadlift, which is no big deal to some people to me.
It's kind of a big deal.
And this organic, by the way.
So, you know, I'm not a person or a organic certified.
Check.
Also, yes, we have a store.
Jocco has a store.
So I made a video.
It was fun about it with nothing like super in depth.
But, you know, I got all our friends training partners.
Yeah.
Are people?
Where you got?
Noah.
Oliver.
Noah's got good on locks.
Yeah.
He's actually been like, I mean, on top of a great McIntyre.
He's been kind of my main training partner recently.
The past few months.
Yeah.
The main.
So him, yes.
No Oliver.
Greg McIntyre.
Greg Tray.
Isn't there?
We got Nadine.
Nadine.
Tim Ford.
Did I say Greg McIntyre?
Greg?
He's all up in there.
Oh, you got Dave Burke.
Good to hear.
Yeah.
Jamie.
And then the kids.
Can we say who's kids there?
There's some kids in there.
We'll just say there's some kids in there.
Yes.
Yeah.
So yeah.
Nadine's in there.
Tim's there.
Anyway.
The point is they're just our friends.
It was just cool fun video.
Jockel story.
You want to do you want something to get or if you like something get something.
Nonetheless.
Jockelstore.com is where you can get the shirts that say this political freedom if you want
to represent in the wild on the path.
How's this when I was, this was a while ago.
So my, I had an extra shirt later on.
It was a size medium.
That's what you were.
See, it's funny.
It's I knew you can say that.
I knew you're going to say something like that.
Anyway, I'm taking pictures for this, you know, you got to take pictures for the products.
Right.
For the store.
And for whatever reason the size medium.
That's the best looking size, I guess, for pictures.
I don't know.
Nonetheless, take the picture of it.
But I have it laying around.
Right.
So my wife is like, oh, this is extra shirt.
And you know, can I give it to like one of my friends or whatever.
And I wasn't, I had no use for the shirt at this point.
And I said no.
Because I don't know if their friend is like going to represent, you know, I don't know if the friend is on the path.
Yeah.
What if the friend's not on the path and they're wearing that shirt.
That's, you know, it's different.
There's more to it.
That's what it feels like.
It's the same thing.
It's your story.
On the less.
When you are on the path.
And you want to represent in the wild.
You just go to joclist.com.
I was at the Joe Rogan show.
Sure.
Before 20.
Yeah.
The 420 and San Diego.
With Peter Tia.
Yeah.
And we were with a bunch of other dudes.
And Peter Tia was reminding me that on Twitter, somebody had said, hey, jocco, I wasn't in the
Seal teams, but I want to show support to the seals.
Is it cool if I wear like a Navy seal, tried in on my hat or t-shirt?
And my response was I was in the seal teams for 20 years.
And I don't wear a seal team hat or t-shirt.
Yeah.
So, wait.
So does that mean yes or no?
That means no.
Yeah.
Hell no, right?
Because okay.
So it coincidentally me and good deal Dave Burke were talking about the exact same thing.
So I forget how we end up talking about it.
But I was like, hey, what's the, what's the, because he gave me his uniform.
I was doing something with it for videoizing.
So I don't know for whatever reason I ended up talking about, but like, what can you wear?
Like, what can not wear?
What's off limits?
Yeah.
You know, on this thing and he told me is like, you know, some stuff in me.
But I don't know.
So he had to sort of explain it to me.
And that's essentially the scenario he painted.
He was like, you know how like the Navy seals like they have the tried in.
Yeah.
Like you can't just put on a try in.
You know, like, like if you're not that you bring the tried in here,
but let's say for whatever reason you're right, I can't just grab it and then like, kind of put it on.
Even as like for fun, though, it's like,
That's kind of off limits.
You know, you can't say.
And then so you made the comparison to Jitu belts too.
Like if I grabbed your black belt and put it on,
granted, you're kind of my friend.
I could never, you wouldn't even let's say, let's say I wasn't, let's say I wasn't even a white belt.
Let's say I was like, even like a purple belt.
And my instructor, who I wasn't necessarily personal friends with, but that was having to be my instructor.
I can't put that belt on.
What if he was like, what if you forgot your belt, he was injured and he was on the sidelines and he was like, oh, just wear mine.
Would you wear it?
He would never do that.
But and what's funny is Dave Burke brought that exact scenario up.
Different colors, though.
So he had good question.
What's he like?
Okay, just wear mine.
It's a blue belt.
He said he's in the guy he was training with, I think it was a blue belt that he was training with.
He was like, hey, I've been extra one.
You don't have a belt.
You need a belt to, you know, to train yourself like that.
You know, this is a blue belt. Dave Burke said out of respect for the guy is like, you know, suggestion. He wore it, but he did not feel good about it.
Oh, I think that's kind of the deal.
Where if you somehow get a belt gives you a belt.
You know what I used to give guys it, like in the, if they started training, I'd give a piece of one inch tube to be the nylon green.
Yeah, which is just like to tie their belt.
Do you remember the camera?
Yeah, ABC.
Right.
Yeah, camp.
Good.
So, the wrestler and strong.
Wrong.
Yes.
You know, he came to my, is the guy, do you know the camera came to my house and tame the beast?
Do you know what that is with kettlebell?
Tame the beast.
You get the 48 kilogram kettlebell, which you don't have on that big.
I do.
No, you don't.
I have a nice.
So, I have one, but before I had those, he ordered one.
And he was like in between houses at the time.
So he, so he ordered a hat at scent to my house.
He gets it.
He comes to my house.
First time he's ever picked up a 48 kilogram,
166 pound kettlebell.
And there's a thing called taming the beast, which is,
you do a press with that kettlebell.
You do a pistol with that kettlebell.
And then you do a pull up with that kettlebell.
The first time he ever did it, he did it.
He did it.
He did it right.
Did it right?
All right.
Like no warm up.
Just boom.
Same a lot because he's not a large, like I'm bigger than he's like a what?
What?
$195.
Yeah.
Maybe $195.
Yeah, I might give him like one nonetheless.
Yeah, that's super good.
Same a lot.
No less the point.
I bring him up is because the first time he ever trained geek.
Because I trained with him before.
Yeah.
And I was like, all this guy's probably at the time.
Years ago.
He's probably about.
I was a pro belt.
Yeah.
So I was like, this guy's probably a like a pro belt too.
So, you know, whatever,
I mean, with him one day comes in in the geek.
So I'm like, oh, you know, yeah, that little party is like kind of like, oh yeah, you know, let me confirm.
We don't want to.
But he has a piece of that green.
That dark green.
All right.
And here's the thing.
It doesn't just stand out because it's like it's kind of darker whatever.
But you see new guy come, you know, because he's sort of, you know,
when you come and train for the first time in gear in some class is kind of like most of those people.
They kind of go down from the top.
Yeah, exactly right.
But this guy's a new guy.
I knew who he was.
Like, looking at him like, okay, that's obviously a military piece of equipment.
It's not a belt.
It was funny.
The looks on everyone's face.
They're like, they're kind of looking at each other.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
It was crazy.
That's the whole world gone crazy.
Yeah.
It's really funny.
But that's how rigid the belt situation is though.
Yeah.
That's why you can't just grab a guy's belt.
And as I know people,
not specific people,
but it would stand to reason.
Put it that way.
It would stand to reason that even as a joke,
if I grabbed like,
you know what's funny?
As a joke,
I've been like here just where mine.
Like some people, you know,
I've just been like giving people my black belt.
Like, oh, you know, like a blue belt or a purple belt.
Like here, you just wear mine and I gave it to me.
Like, like awkwardly, awkwardly make them do it.
But that's how that's the dynamics of that.
Before I really knew Jeff Glover,
he came down here and did a seminar.
He's like, hey, I don't know about.
And I was like, yeah, he can use mine.
And I was really, I was actually worried.
Yeah, I was actually worried.
I was really at one belt.
I've only had one belt.
My whole time, like one black belt.
And I was worried.
I was like, dang.
I mean, not that I thought he was going to like steal it.
But I just was afraid.
Oh, you know, he'll put in his bag and next thing,
you know, it's in Santa Barbara.
And the next thing, you know, I'll never see my belt again.
My special belt.
Yeah.
Oh, there for that day when he did it.
Because I wasn't here though.
I wasn't here.
That was the part I was here.
And I had to go.
Yeah.
And so I didn't get to,
but he hung it back up Jeffy Glover to care about it.
I took a picture of him that day.
Oh, really well.
But if he was one of my belt.
He is wearing your belt on the picture.
And he's doing this.
And that picture ended up being used for a bunch of different stuff.
Yeah.
That's kind of cool.
And my belt made it kind of famous with Jeffy Glover.
If you notice, like, the belt is a little bit long.
It's fun.
Oh, yeah, because I'm thicker than he is.
Yeah, well, you have like a, you know, the belt comes in three.
Yeah.
And he's probably he's an A1 for sure.
Because of 55.
Yeah.
There it is.
So don't do that.
Don't worry guys.
There's a guy at Seal team.
And two who's a just incredibly well-respected guy in the day.
And he had, I think he had two sons.
And he was giving him like a hat, like a seal team, two hat or something that had
a tried on it.
Mm-hmm.
Well, he had an old one that he was going to give him two sons.
Okay, I'm not going to wear this in his two old.
And he made them cut the tried-in off of it.
If they wanted to wear it.
Ha ha.
I was like, yes.
Yeah, that's true.
I dig it.
And there's all those kinds of things.
You know, like if even on a super low or level, like, you know, if you made it through some
little thing, like, I don't know, like one of these Spartan races or something.
Yeah.
You only get this shirt or hat if you did it.
You know.
And even then there's a little, I mean, it's way more loose for sure.
But, you know, like your wife puts it on or something.
People like that do that.
Yeah, man.
I know my daughter, I know my daughter,
I represent that state.
It's the day wrestling champion.
Oh, yes.
Let's get up there. They're buying those shirts and sweatshirts.
It's like, you got read about what if you came home in your wife had your try it on?
Why would my wife have such a...
Just because she's trying to represent.
Oh, just taking from her.
No, actually, there's a thing where there's a thing where, like, I seal,
will give his wife like a little necklace with a try it on it.
Yeah.
Okay. You know, that's sort of there.
Why, so she doesn't take his.
No, I don't think she'd be trying to take his,
but I think it's just, you know, little appreciation.
Yeah, fully.
But no, but no, my, uh,
her wife knows what's up.
Yeah, no, my wife does not want to those.
Yeah.
I know she doesn't.
Makes sense.
So that's kind of how it is, right?
With the shirts from Jocco store kind of,
I mean, not to that level, but I put it this way.
If I see someone wearing representing,
I know that they're representing.
I know they're on the path for you there.
They're not just some guy who,
person or whatever, that's not on the path.
It doesn't seem like that.
They're definitely in the game. Yeah.
Yeah.
They're definitely in the game.
That's what a beautiful.
Sure.
Boom.
There you go.
Also, subscribe to the podcast.
If you haven't already.
I know seems obvious, but apparently it's not as obvious from what I gather.
Unless subscribe if you haven't already.
Yeah.
And by the way, that's if you get a piece of gear,
it supports the podcast.
Is that important?
Well, is it important?
It depends on what you mean by important.
So yes.
Yeah.
To let people know that the one additional bonus of representing is you're actually helping out the podcast support.
We're going to get a new table, by the way.
No, yeah.
Which has been a wonder.
Yeah, this one is ridiculous.
Yeah.
Echo Charles is table.
Well, this is one of those things where like an apt punishment would be you had to bring this to your house and use it as your dining room table for a year.
Oh my gosh.
Yeah.
I think this is a good day.
You know, the picture looked nice.
Sure.
All right.
So we're going to get a new table.
If you buy a t-shirt, we can get a new table that's not going to fall down.
You know, that, but we appreciate that support too.
And when you're subscribing to the podcast, check out the Warrior Kid podcast.
The Warrior Kid podcast is aimed at kids, but I promise you that Uncle Jake has lessons for everyone and also we have a kid.
A warrior kid named Aiden.
And he's making soap here in California.
Irish Oaks Ranch.com.
If you want to get some some soap, some jocos soap so that you can stay clean.
He has a new and two trooper soap.
Yeah.
Different.
Has a roll on it.
So put a rope.
He's a 550 cord by the way.
Two layers for sure.
Yeah.
That's some good stuff by the way.
Also YouTube.
We do have a YouTube channel.
If you're interested in the video version of this podcast, you want to see what this table looks like.
It looks like a week table.
It looks okay.
I can't see it in that.
You can't really see it.
Yeah.
Nonetheless, you can see how wiggly all the books.
Table number.
Yeah.
No, the last.
If you're interested in the video version of this podcast, that's what you can find it.
Also some excerpts on there.
If you don't want to watch the whole podcast at once, you know, some excerpts on there.
Little lessons that you may have found important.
You can kind of revisit those.
Also got psychological warfare.
Everyone that asked for an alarm clock with my voice on it, telling them to wake up or whatever.
That's get the psychological warfare soundtrack.
The psychological warfare album on iTunes or Google Play or MP3 platforms.
And there's a bunch of things on there of me telling you the right thing to do.
Anyway, you should do the right thing.
So check that out.
Also check out flip side canvas.
My brother Dakota Meyer is making art.
Is that the right word?
Yes.
He's making art.
And putting art on canvases.
Canvases and vinyl posters that you can hang up.
And you can remind yourself the discipline equals freedom.
You can remind yourself that all your excuses are lies.
Yeah.
Well, that's really good because a lot of people were and we have posters for sure on, you know, the store.
But this is a little bit, it's like one, maybe like three or four levels better than, you know, a poster.
Yeah.
Post or cool man.
Like, of course, you hang me in your gym.
This is like, this is like a level.
Yeah.
It's like a level alert.
But it's like a level.
Yeah.
Flip side canvas dot com and also support Dakota Meyer for crying out loud.
Big time.
Also on it on it dot com slash jocco.
This is where you can get fitness gear, cattle bells.
I recently posted a picture of my newest kettlebell stormtrooper.
Which I thought about a picture.
Yeah.
It was a good picture on it posted it as like a picture on their thing.
You made it big.
You just made my dick big time.
Kind of that was a person.
No.
But, you know, nonetheless it happened.
But yeah, you can get, you know, kettlebells on there, some ropes, some battle ropes.
It got some good like immunity supplements too.
That's the one I actually have been religiously taking this shroom tech immune.
Jack.
You got to take that one.
So if you're doing childhood nonetheless, a lot of good good stuff on there on it dot com slash jocco.
Have a little book coming out called away the warrior kid three where there's a will.
It is available for pre-order right now.
If you want to help me and you want the book, please pre-order it so that I know how many
Deprint.
I failed miserably when it came to Mikey in the dragons.
Mikey in the dragons.
I didn't make enough.
I ended up having a scramble to make more.
I apologize.
We got him to everyone by Christmas, but it was, uh, it was not smooth.
It was a little bit of a nightbar, total failure on my part this time.
Way the warrior kid three where there's a will.
Check out that book pre-order it.
Now it's coming out May 28th by the way.
So we're almost there.
But I can make more quickly.
Quickly enough to have him ready for you if you pre-order it.
Anyways, also the way the warrior kid and marks mission.
Those are the first two books in that series.
Mikey in the dragons best book ever for little kids in the history of ever.
That's confirmed by the way.
And the field manual, the discipline equals pre-imfield manual.
That's a book about how to get after it no matter where you are in your life.
It's a great place to start.
Or to keep you.
To start on the path or to keep you on the path.
The audio version of that is on iTunes.
Amazon, music, Google Play.
Extreme ownership.
First book I wrote with my brother, Dave Babin.
The dichotomy of leadership.
Second book I wrote with my brother, Dave Babin.
Ashillan front.
That's our leadership consultancy.
We solve problems through leadership.
That's what we do.
Go to echelonfront.com.
The monster.
May 23rd and 24th.
Sold out.
Done.
That's in Chicago.
September 19th and 20th.
In Denver, that one is going to set out.
So is Sydney, December 4th and 5th.
If you want to come to the monster.
Extreme ownership.com.
That's where the details are.
They're all going to sell out.
All them have sold out and all them will sell out.
So if you want to come.
Get on there and get registered.
EF online.
I already talked about that.
The EF Overwatch is where we take leaders from special operations from combat aviation.
And we place them into companies that need leadership inside their organization.
So you know, it's going to hire someone just because they've been working in some industry for a long time.
And some industry for a long time.
Higher someone that has leadership capability and then get them up to speed on the industry.
These guys are proven combat leaders.
They can step up and take you to the place you need.
EF Overwatch.com.
And if you want to cruise with us.
Hardcore.
By the way, hardcore cruising.
Which is my recommended level of cruising.
From time to time, rest between sets.
We're on the inner webs.
Twitter, Instagram.
And on Facebook.
That was going to do like you did.
Anyway, I'm at Echo Charles.
And Jockel's at Jockel Willink on all of them.
And thanks to all our military folks out there that are on the front lines of freedom,
standing watch and thanks to police and law enforcement, firefighters, paramedics,
EMTs, dispatchers, correctional officers, border patrol, secret service.
And all first responders who maintain vigilance 24 hours a day, 365 days a year to keep us safe.
Here at home into everyone else out there.
Remember some of those lessons from Field Marshall Montgomery.
Remember to cut through the overlying difficulties and see the essentials of what you need to do.
And then take a dispatch and a dispatch and a view of good things and bad things that are going to assail you.
And use your force of will to keep getting after it.
And until next time, this is Echo and Jockel. Out.